
 
	Lesson 35 	Stop thief! 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（10） 
while 	n. 一段时间 
regret 	v. 后悔 
far 	adv. 非常 
rush 	v. 冲 
act 	v. 行动 
straight 	adv. 径直 
fright 	n. 害怕 
battered 	adj. 撞坏的 
shortly 	adv. 很快，不久 
afterwards 	adv. 以后 
 
★	while 	n. 一段时间 
while = some time 一小会儿 wait for a while 	 等一会儿 after a while 	隔了一会儿 
 
★	regret 	v. 后悔 
①	regret sth. 	后悔…… 
You will regret it. 你会后悔的, 你一定会后悔的 
②	regret to do sth. 	很遗憾要去做…… 
I regret to tell you a bad news. 我很遗憾要告诉你一个坏消息 (还没说) 
③ regret doing sth. 	很遗憾已经做了…… I regret telling him the news. 	我真后悔告诉他这个消息 
I regret to steal your money. 
④ regret that +从句 遗憾…… 
遗憾：pity<n.>、sorry<adj.>、regret<v.> 
It's a pity I am sorry to… 
 
★	far 	adv. 非常 
far＝much, 修饰形容词或副词的比较级, 注意 most 是修饰形容词或副词的, 而不是比较级比较级前可以加修饰词，表示程度，多一点点用 a little，多很多用 much 
 
★	rush 	v. 冲 ① vi. 冲，奔 rush 	vi. (用腿)冲 
While I was talking to Frank, a man rushed into the room. run 	v. 跑(速度很快) ② vt.&vi. 仓促行事，仓促完成；赶紧做 
 
Roy rushed (through) his lunch and left for the staion. 
Tom always rushes his homework on Sunday evenings. 
③ n. 猛冲，奔 
Roy made a rush at the thieves. 
 
★	act 	v. 行动 
	Act! 	(口语) 行动! 
take action to do sth. 采取行动  
★	straight 	adv. 径直 
①	adj. 直的，笔直的 
He drew a straight line on the paper. 
This road isn’t straight. 
②	adv. 笔直地 go straight on 径直往前走 
You’ll see a tower straight ahead. 你会看到正前方有个塔。 
③	adv. 径直地，直接地 
John always goes straight home after work. 
Roy drove the bus straight at the thieves. 
 
	★ fright 	n. 害怕 
	get a fright 	得到惊吓的感觉（类似 get a surprise） 
You give me a fright. 你吓了我一跳 give sb. sth. 给人带来感觉 
give me a pleasure/an excitement/a fright 
	frighten 	vt. 使惊吓；vi. 惊恐 
You frighten me. 
This doesn't worry me. 
frightening 	adj. 令人感到可怕的； frightened 	adj. 自己感到可怕的一个动词能够加 ing/ed, 证明这个动词跟人的情感有关, 他的宾语就会是人 frightful＝terrible 	adj. 可怕 
Your handwriting is frightful. 你的字真糟糕 Cold is frightful. 寒冷是可怕的 
 
★	battered adj. 撞坏的 battered (lose one's shape) 被撞变形的 
	battered bag 	破旧不堪的包（battered 与软的东西连用时，表示用旧了，破旧不堪的） 
batter 	n. 击球手；v. 打坏, 猛击 damaged 	adj. 被刮坏的 destroyed car 车子被损害不能修 ； damaged car 车子坏了，但能修 ；battered car 车变形 
 
★	afterwards adv. 以后 shortly afterwards ＝soon 不久以后  shortly＝soon； afterwards＝later 	后来, 以后 
 
【Text】 
Rov Trenton used to drive a taxi. A short while ago, however, he became a bus driver and he was not regretted it. He is finding his new work far more exciting. When he was driving along Catford Street recently, he saw two thieves rush out of a shop and run towards a waiting car. One of them was carrying a bag full of money. Roy acted quickly and drove the bus straight at the thieves. The one with the money got such a fright that he dropped the bag. As the thieves were trying to get away in their car, Roy drove his bus into the back of it. While the battered car was moving away, Roy stopped his bus and telephoned the police. The thieves' car was badly damaged and easy to recognize. Shortly afterwards, the police stopped the car and both men were arrested. 
 
参考译文 
罗伊·特雷顿原是开出租汽车的, 然而就在前不久, 他开上了公共汽车, 也并不为此而感到后悔. 他发觉自己的新工作令人兴奋得多. 最近, 当他正开车在凯特福德街上行驶时, 看到有两个小偷从一家商店里冲出来, 奔向等在那里的一辆汽车, 其中一个提着一只装满钞票的提包. 罗伊行动迅速, 开车直冲窃贼而去. 拿钱的那个小偷吓得把提包都扔了. 当那两个小偷企图乘车逃跑时, 罗伊驾驶他的公共汽车撞在了那辆车的后尾上. 当那辆被撞坏的车开走后, 罗伊停下车, 给警察挂了电话. 小偷的车损坏严重, 很容易辨认. 没过多久, 警察就截住了那辆车, 两个小偷都被抓住了. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、A short while ago, however, he became a bus driver and he was not regretted it. a short while ago＝a short time ago 不久以前 
while 作名词表示“一会儿，（一段）时间”时常与 a 连用，有时也与 the，this 等连用： 
They haven’t seen each other for a long while. Have you been in Australia all this while? I saw her a short while ago. 
however 可以放句首, 可以放句中；如果一个词两边有逗号，证明这个词是插入语  
2、	He is finding his new work far more exciting. find 可以用一般现在时态, 可以用进行时态 
He is finding his trip very exciting. 
far more exciting 更有趣（在形容词和副词的比较级与最高级前面，可以用 far（相当 much）来表示强
调，译为“很，大大的”） 
It’s far/much colder today than it was yesterday. This is (by) far the most expensive bicycle in the shop. 
 
3、	When he was driving along Catford Street recently, he saw two thieves rush out of a shop and run towards a waiting car. 
see 和一些感知动词（如 smell, feel, hear, watch, notice 等）可以用在动词+名词/代词宾语+不带 to 的不定式结构（省略 to）中，如果全过程用 do，过程中的一瞬间用 doing： see sb. do sth. 看见某人做某事(强调全过程) 
I see them dance. (看了全过程) 
see sb. doing sth. 看见某人正在做某事 
I see them dancing . (只看了一部分) hear sb doing sth.，hear sb. do sth.  
4、The one with the money got such a fright that he dropped the bag. with 一旦出现在名词或代词后就做定语, 出现在动词之后做状语 
	He came in with a book. 	(作状语) 
The boy with a book came in. (作定语) get a fright 吓了一跳 
so+形容词(副词)+that…/such+(修饰词或形容词)+名词+that… 	如此……以致…… 一旦有名词, 就认为形容词修饰的是名词, 前面的词也修饰的是名词 
	drop 	vt. 由于抓什么没抓住不小心掉下去 （sb. drop sth.） 
I drop the chalk. 
fall 	vi. 从上往下落 （sth. fall） drop the money / the money fall The chalk is falling.  
5、	As the thieves were trying to get away in their car, Roy drove his bus into the back of it. as = when 当……时候 get away  ＝ run away 逃跑 
How did the thief get away? by car /in the car  	开车
	drive into… 	撞上…… 
 
6、	While the battered car was moving away, Roy stopped his bus and telephoned the police. 
stopped his car，the car stopped（与当时说话时的视觉概念有关，一个是人为停，一个是自己停下来）  
7、	The thieves' car was badly damaged and easy to recognize. 
…and easy to recognize = and the car was easy to recognize (用主动表被动含义) 
如果一个不定式的前面是一个形容词,  如果主句的结局是“系表结构+to”，不定式当中常用主动表被动, 
在不定式的表达方式当中, 动词的宾语如果刚好是这句话的主语, 这个宾语一定不能出现 
The apple is sweet enough to eat. 
The apple is too sour to eat. 	(sour 	adj. 酸的) The question is easy enough to answer. 
The boy is enough clever to answer the question. 
这个小孩足够聪明以至于能回答这个问题。 （the question 不是主语故一定要出现） 
文中 “…easy to recognize(car)” 因 car 是主语, 所以不能出现 
在不定式当中, 也许有可能用主动表达被动含义, 及物动词后面一般加宾语(这个宾语就是这句话的主语就不加), 又如：The clothes are too comfortable to ware. 
8、Shortly afterwards, the police stopped the car and both men were arrested. shortly afterwards 	没过多久 
both men ＝ two persons 
stop the car 	 拦住车子（the driver stop the car；其他人 stopped the car） stop thief 	捉賊 
 
【Special difficulties】 So and Such 
such 和 so 都可以用于表示程度，但 so 只能作副词和连词，such 则是形容词，因此 so 通常位于形容词、 
副词之前，而 such 只能位于名词之前： 
I’ve never read so interesting a book. 
I’ve never read such an interesting book. 
引导结果状语从句时，它们的结构分别是： 
	so +形容词(副词) +that…/ such +(a, an 修饰词或形容词)+名词+that… 	如此……以至于…… 
一旦有名词, 就认为形容词修饰的是名词, 前面的词也修饰的是名词，如果名词是可数名词单数才要加 a 和 an, 反过来如果是可数名词单数, 前面一定要加 a 或 an 
It was so cold that no one went out. such 除了表示“这样的，如此的”等意思外，还可以表示“像这一类的”，so 不能表示这种意思。 
He often talks about such things. 
You should not speak to such people. 
如果形容词是表示数量的(many, much, little, few), 一律用 so 
There is so little time left that we must hurry. 
There is such a little(小) bird that I can't see it. 
(little 不会和可数名词连用，如连用不会译成“数量少”，而应译为“小”) 
He is so lazy a boy./ He is such a lazy boy. 
如果有几个以上的形容词共同修饰一个名词的时候, 冠词放在第一位, 这句话中冠词不放在第一位, 说
明 “a” 与 “boy” 有关系, “lazy” 从意思上与 “boy” 有关系, 但从强调点上与 “boy” 没关系, 它的强调点在 
“lazy” 上 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 1 Roy Trenton _ a___. 
a.	prefers driving a bus to driving a taxi 
b.	prefers driving a taxi to driving a bus 
c.	is sorry he isn't a taxi driver 
d.	is glad he didn't change his job 
prefer…to… 更喜欢这个东西(和后面的东西比), 宁可也不 
I prefer tea to water. 
prefer+名词+to<prep.>+名词(如为动词则+ing)  
I prefer drinking tea to drinking water. 
prefer to(不定式的标志)+动词原形…rather than… 比起……更喜欢…… 
He prefers to drive bus rather than drive a taxi. I prefer to have an apple rather than have an orange.  
3 Roy Trenton used to drive a taxi. This means he ___a___ a taxi. a. has stopped driving 	b. is used to driving 
	c. got used to driving 	d. still drives 
	used to do 	过去常常做现在不做了（to 为介词） 
The boy used to swim in the river. 	那男孩过去在河里游泳 be used to doing sth. = get used to doing sth. 	习惯于…… 
	I am(not) used to getting up early. 	我习惯起早 
The boy is used to swimming in the river. 那男孩习惯在河里游泳 be used to do sth. 被用来 
	The knife is used to cut the paper. 	刀被用来切纸 
 
4 He noticed two thieves _ d___ out of a shop. 
a.	to come 	 b. are coming 	 c. in coming  	d. come see sb. doing sth. 看见某人正在做某事； see sb. do sth. 看见某人做某事 notice sb. doing sth. ； notice sb. do sth. watch sb. doing sth.   ； watch sb. do sth. 
b.	are coming 没有主从一致, 应为was coming 就对  
7 The car was easy to recognize, so it wasn't ___d___ difficult for the police to catch the thieves. 
a. much 	b. very 	c. many 	d. too too…to… 	 太 …… 以 至 于 不 能 …… enough…to…   足以用来做某事 
many 应加+名词 ； much, very 一般不会与 to 连用  
8 He hasn't regretted it. He _ a___ it. 
	a. isn't sorry about 	b. doesn't pity 
c. isn't pleased with 	 	d. doesn't laugh about be sorry about sth. 	为……感到遗憾(抱歉) be pleasued with sth. 	对……感到满意 laugh at 	嘲笑； laugh about sth. 为……原因而笑 b. pity 不对是由于词性不对，pity 是形容词  
11 The thief dropped the bag. He ___d_ . 
a. let it 	b. left it 	c. fell it 	d. let it fall let sb. do sth. 	 让某人做某事（听之任之） 
My father lets me play football. (听之任之, 随他去) 
make sb. do sth. 让某人做某事（有强迫的意思） 
My father makes me play football. (强迫) 