
 
	Lesson 45 	A clear conscience 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（6） 
clear 	adj. 无罪的，不亏心的 
conscience 	n. 良心，道德心 
wallet 	n. 皮夹，钱夹 
savings 	n. 存款 
villager 	n. 村民 
per cent 	百分之…… 
 
★ conscience n. 良心, 道德心 a clear conscience 问心无愧 
I have a clear conscience. 我问心无愧 a guilty/bad conscience 问心有愧 (guilty adj.犯罪的, 有罪的, 心虚的) I 
have a guilty conscience. 	 	我问心有愧  
★	wallet 	 	n. 皮夹, 钱夹 (一般指的是男用的那种皮夹) purse 	n. 钱包(女士用) handbag 	n. 手袋 
	billfold 	n. 皮夹, 钱包(美语) (意为纸币折叠形成的, 很形象) 
 
★	savings 	n. 存款 
savings account 	存款账号(有利息的, 有点象活期存款) checking account 存款(没有利息) deposit 	n. 定金 deposit account 	存款(有利息, 有点象定期存款) ATM  （auto teller machine） 自动取款机 self-service machine 自助银行 cash card 取款卡 
	IC ① interchange 	高速公路转换出入口 
	② integrate circuit 	[电]集成电路,指令计数器 
 
★	per cent 百分之…… three per cent 百分之三 
 
【Text】 
The whole village soon learnt that a large sum of money had been lost. Sam Benton, the local butcher, had lost his wallet while taking his savings to the post office. Sam was sure that the wallet must have been found by one of the villagers, but it was not returned to him. Three months passed, and then one morning, Sam found his wallet outside his front door. It had been wrapped up in newspaper and it contained half the money he had lost, together with a note which said: 'A thief, yes, but only 50 per cent a thief!' Two months later, some more money was sent to Sam with 
 
another note: 'Only 25 per cent a thief now!' In time, all Sam's money was paid back in this way. The last note 
said: 'I am 100 per cent honest now!' 
 
参考译文 
整个村子很快知道, 有一大笔钱丢失了. 当地的屠户萨姆.本顿在把存款送往邮局的途中把钱包丢了. 萨姆确信那钱包一定是被某个村民捡到了, 可是却不见有人来送还给他. 3 个月过去了, 后来在一天早晨, 萨姆在自己的大门外发现了他的钱包. 钱包是用报纸包着的, 里面有他丢失的钱的一半, 而且还附着一张纸条, 上面写着 : “一个小偷, 是的, 但只是一个 50%的小偷!” 又过了两个月, 又有一些钱送还给了萨姆, 又附了一张字条 : “这回只是 25%的小偷了!” 很快, 萨姆全部的钱都用同样的方式还了回来. 最后的那张字条上写道 : “我现在是一个 100%的诚实人了!” 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、A clear conscience 问心无愧 
a clear conscience 又可译为“清白的良心”，相当于 a good conscience，反义词 a bad conscience（感到内 
疚）。  
2、The whole village soon learnt that a large sum of money had been lost. 
village 在这里为总称，指“村民”，the whole village 指“全村的人”，后面通常跟单数动词（有时也可 
视为复数） 
The whole village was excited by news. 
learn 	v. 得知，获悉 the whole world learnt… 	全世界都知道…… 
I’ve just learnt that she was ill. 
	a large sum of… 	一大笔…… 
 
3、	Sam Benton, the local butcher, had lost his wallet while taking his savings to the post office. 
while   doing  是现在分词短语用于连词之后，作用相当于一个时间状语从句。现在分词这样用的前提是两个动词的主语是同一个，并且这两个动作通常是同时发生（即这句话一定要是进行时态）。如果主语不  一致则必须用从句。 
这句话完整的应为: while he was taking his savings… 
 
4、	Sam was sure that the wallet must have been found by one of the villagers, but it was not returned to him. must have done 表示对过去的推测；must have been done 表示对过去被动的推测  
5、	Three months passed, and then one morning, Sam found his wallet outside his front door. 三种表示一段时间以后,另外一件事情发生的方式： 
①	…passed, and then 
②	some time later 
③	some time passed before… 
 
6 、 It had been wrapped up in newspaper and it contained half the money he had lost, together with a note which said: 'A thief, yes, but only 50 per cent a thief!' 
 
	wrap up 	包裹 
It had been wrapped up in newspaper by somebody. (用报纸包用 in，不能用 by) half the money =half of the money 钱的一半（half 直接加在名词前表示 “一半” ） half an hour 半个小时 ， half a year 半年 
Half the bread/half of the bread was bad. 
	together with… = with… 	随它一起的还有……（介词短语作状语） 
	I with my son went there. 	我带着我的儿子去了 
	My son and I went there. 	我和我儿子去那里。 
a note said… 	纸条上说…… the picture said… 	图片上说…… newspaper said… 	报纸上说…… 
 
7、	Two months later, some more money was sent to Sam with another note: 'Only 25 per cent a thief now!' some more money 又有一些钱 (more 又, 再) 
 
8、	In time, all Sam's money was paid back in this way. 
	in time = in the end 	最终，最后，经过一段时间 
In time, he found all the books he needed. 
I’ll tell you everything in time. 
pay back 	还回来 in the way 以这种方式 
You must pay attention to your spelling. In this way, you can become a good secrtary in time. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 Steal and Rob 
steal （something from someone or somewhere） 偷（从某人或某处） steal (sth.) from (sb.) steal 后跟（被偷）物 
The man who stole my wallet took my address book as well. Someone has stolen my bag from me. 
rob  （someone of something  ）（a building，a blank，a house，etc.） 抢（某人的某物）（大楼、银行、房子等） 
	rob (sb.) of (sth.) 	rob 后跟人或地方 
I lost my address book when that man robbed me of my bag. The police have caught the men who robbed the bank. 
 
Pay back 
①	偿还 
Yesterday Sam borrowed some money from me and said that he would pay me back in a week. 
②	报答；向……报复（pay sb. back） 
You’ve been very kind to me. How can I pay you back? 
	I’ll pay you back for what you did to me. 	你对我这样，我一定会报仇的。 
 He embarrassed me at the party. I’ll pay him back someday. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
3 Sam was taking his savings to the post office ___a___ he lost his wallet. 
	a.when 	b.while 	c.as 	d.just as 
while doing  两者同时发生（while sb. was doing  当……时候），能用 while、as（as 等同于 while）的地方就可以用 when，反之则不一定。when 后的时间表达即可以是点，也可以是段；while 后的时间表达只可以是段 
 
7 Some more money was sent to Sam. Sam ___c___ some more money. a. sent 	b. has sent 	c. was sent 	d. had sent send/take/give sb. sth.  （send=take/give），双宾语一般用离动词最近的宾语来做被语动态的主语 sent sb. sth. -> 变被动 sb. be sent sth. 
send sth. to sb. -> 变被动 sth. be sent to sb.  
9	The thief had _ c_ the wallet in newspaper. 
a.wound 	 	b.rolled 	c.wrapped 	d.bound wind 	v. 蜿蜒（主要指道路） roll 	v. 卷起来，如：滚雪球 spring roll 	春卷 
bound 	v. 弹跳，球类的弹跳  
10	How much did it contain? How much___b___ ? 
	a. did it consist 	b. was there in it 	c. did it include 	d. had it 
contain/container 与容器有关,或类似于容器的东西的包含 include 指一种抽象的包含 
 
 
12 ___b_ , all Sam's money was returned. 
a. At times b. After a time c. With the times d. A long time a time 一段时间, 不译为 “一次” , 一次用 “once” for a long time after a time = after some time 