
 
	Lesson 4 	An exciting trip 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（6） 
exciting 	adj. 令人兴奋的 	
receive 	v.  接受，收到 	
firm 	n. 商行，公司 	
different 	adj. 不同的 	
centre 	n. 中心 	
abroad 
 	adv. 在国外 	
★ exciting 	adj. 令人兴奋的 	
exciting 	adj. 令人兴奋的；excited 	adj. 兴奋的 
-ed: 自己感到 / -ing:令人感到
The news exciting. 
exciting boy 令人兴奋的男孩 
I am excited. 
	excite 	v. 激动 （这类动词的宾语一定是人，让后面的人感到……） 
The news excited me. 
 
interesting 	adj. 令人感到有趣的；interested 	adj. 感到有意思的 interesting man 
The man is interesting. 
	interest 	v. 对……感兴趣 
The book interests me. 那本书让我感到很有趣 
 
	★ receive 	v. 接受, 收到 
①	vt. 接到，收到，得到 
When did you receive that letter? 
②	vt. 招待，接待 
You need a large room if you are going to receive so many guests. 
 
receive 是“收到”，指的是一个被动的动作，主观上接受与否不清楚。 receive/have a letter from sb. 
accept 同意接收 
This morning I received a bunch of flowers from a boy,but I didn't accept it. take 则是主动的“拿”、“取” 
I received a beautiful pen from my uncle. My brother took it from me yesterday. take 也可以作收到 
take the exam 接受考试； take advice 接受建议 
 
★	firm 	n. 商行, 公司 company 	n. 公司 
 
★	different 	adj. 不同的 
①	adj. 不同的，相异的（经常与 from 连用） 
We are planning something different this year. 我们今年有不同的打算。 
My room is different from yours. 
②	adj. 各种各样的，不同的 
This department store sells a large number of different things. 这家百货商店出售许多各种各样的东西。 
He has visited many different places in China. 他去过中国的不少地方。 
 
★ abroad adv. 在国外（副词, 直接和动词连用） go abroad 去国外 live abroad 	国外定居 study abroad 国外学习 
 
【Text】 
I have just received a letter from my brother, Tim. He is in Australia. He has been there for six months. Tim is an engineer. He is working for a big firm and he has already visited a great number of different places in Australia. He has just bought an Australian car and has gone to Alice springs, a small town in the centre of Australia. He will soon visit Darwin. From there, he will fly to Perth. My brother has never been abroad before, so he is finding this trip very exciting. 
 
参考译文 
我刚刚收到弟弟蒂姆的来信, 他正在澳大利亚. 他在那儿已经住了 6 个月了. 蒂姆是个工程师, 正在一家大公司工作, 并且已经去过澳大利亚的不少地方了. 他刚买了一辆澳大利亚小汽车, 现在去了澳大利亚中部的小镇艾利斯斯普林斯. 他不久还将到达达尔文去, 从那里, 他再飞往珀斯. 我弟弟以前从未出过国, 因此, 他觉得这次旅行非常激动人心. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、I have just received a letter from my brother, Tim. 同位语：一个名词（或短语等）与另一个名词（或短语）并列而作为其说明或限定成分时称为同位语。  
同位语与它所补充说明的成分之间用逗号隔开。 
在译成汉语时，同位语或者插入主句中，或者另译为一句，很少像英语中那样用逗号隔开。 
This is John, one of my best friends. 这位是约翰。他是我最好的朋友之一。 
Mrs. Smith, my neighbore, has never been abroad. 我的邻居史密斯夫人从来没有出过国。 
 
2、He has been there for six months. 
one month；two months 注意读音 
I have arrived in Beijing. （arrive 是瞬间动词不能和段时间连用） 
has been + in 地点 
He has been in Beijing for one year. 
He has been in America for tow years. 
 
3、	He is working for a big firm and he has already visited a great number of different places in  
 
Australia. 
work for 在……上班/任职，强调 work 
I am working for a school. 
work in 强调地点（在哪个地方上班） 
I am working in the New Oriental school. 
work at 上 班 
She works at a department store. 
 
a number of 后面一定要加可数名词复数；通常 number 前有great，large，good，small，certain 等形容
词，数量大小也随之改变。a great number of 类似于, 约等于 a lot of； 
A large/great number of our students are Danish. There are a small number of spelling mistakes in your homework. 
 
a lot of 可加可数名词也可加不可数名词 
I have a lot of friends I have a great number of friends. 
 
4、	He has just bought an Australian car and has gone to Alice springs, a small town in the centre of Australia. has gone to 去了某地没回来 has been to 曾经去过某地, 现在不在那个地方 
Have you been to Paris? 
 
5、	From there, he will fly to Perth. 
from there:从那地方起 
from 即可以加时间又可以加地点 from half past 8 to half past 11 from Beijing to Tianjing 
fly to Perth = go to Perth by air  
6、	My brother has never been abroad before, so he is fending this trip very exciting. 
before 在句子后是副词,  译为“在此之前”，是现在完成时态的标志 find 作“发现”、“发觉”讲时宾语往往带补足语（一般为形容词），说明宾语的状况、性质等。 
find +宾语+形容词做宾补 find the room clean find her happy 
be finding 在口语中经常使用 
I'm finding... . . We’re finding... ... 
 
下面表示状态、感觉、情绪、精神活动的动词不可用于进行时：believe，doubt，see，hear，know，understand， 
belong，think，consider，feel，look，seem，show，mind，have，sound，taste，require，possess，care，like， hate， love，detest，desire 
 
【Key structures】 	 
现在完成 
现在完成时表示动作现存的结果，或者过去发生的事对现在的影响。常与现在完成时连用的副词和副词短
语：before (now)（以前）；it’s the first tiem（第一次）；so for（到目前为止）；so far this morning（到上午为止）；up to now（直到现在）；up to the present（直到目前）；just（刚刚）；recently（最近）；already（已经）； lately（最近）；now（现在）；for  一段时间；since+时间；still（还；仍）；at last（终于）；finally（最终）；疑问句和否定句中常用 ever，yet，never，not…ever 等。 
I’ve planted fourteen rose bushes so far this morning. 
I have lived here for several years now and I’ve made many new friends since I have lived here. 
现在完成时还可和表示频度的副词连用，表示反复和习惯性动作，如 often（经常），frequently（屡次）， three times（三次）等。 
I’ve watched him on TV several times. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
3 Tim is in Australia. He went ___a___ Australia six months ago. 
a. to 	b. in 	c. at 	d. into at… 表示位置 （be at 是典型表示位置的介词短语） 
go to… 只要有 to 这个感念, 它的后面一定要有宾语, go to the theater go in… (in 做副词)很少加宾语 He went in. go into…   有去向的动作, 还有进入的动作 go into the room 
 
move  常用的意义是“动”、“移动”，在表达“搬家”这个意思时 move  可以单独使用，也可组成短语 move to，move into，move in，move out。 move in:搬进来 move to the new house:正在搬 move into :搬进去了 move out 搬 走 
Jack has moved out. John will move in the day after tomorrow. 
 
4 Tim is in Australia. How long ___b___ there? 
a. is he b. has he been c. has he d. was he how long...对段时间提问, 跟现在完成时相连 
 
11 He will soon visit Darwin. He will visit Darwin＿c＿. 
a. quickly  	b. for a short time 	c. shortly 	d. in a hurry quickly 指的是动作上的快 
He went quickly . 
for a short time 不久, 表示动作延续一段时间 soon = shortly 不久以后, 表示在这段时间之后，强调的是时间上的快 
in a hurry:匆忙的（指动作） 