
 
	Lesson 34 	Quick work 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（2） station 	n. （警察）局 
	most 	adv. 相当，非常 
 
★ station 	n. (警察)局 (一定是与军方, 警方有关系的) post office 	 邮局 police office 	警局 
I went to the police. 我去警察局 communication bureau 交通局 （bureau n. 局）  
★ most adv. 相当, 非常 
①	adj. 用于最高级，表示“最……” 
This is the most beautiful car I’ve even seen. 
②	adj. 大多数的，大部分的 
Most doctors don’t smoke. 
③	adv. 非常，很（相当于 very，但通常用于表达主观感情、见解等）只有加“the”时译为“最”，加“a”或什么也不加时译为“非常，相当”(“very”  的概念)，常与形容
词作用的过去分词连用。 
a most interesting book 非常有趣的书 
I was most surprised when I heard the news. 我非常惊讶 
 
【Text】 
Ted Robinson has been worried all the week. Last Tuesday he received a letter from the local police. In the letter he was asked to call at the station. Ted wondered why he was wanted by the police, but he went to the station yesterday and now he is not worried any more. At the station, he was told by a smiling policeman that his bicycle had been found. Five days ago, the policeman told him, the bicycle was picked up in a small village four hundred miles away. It is now being sent to his home by train. Ted was most surprised when he heard the news. He was amused too, because he never expected the bicycle to be found. It was stolen twenty years ago when Ted was a boy of fifteen ! 
 
参考译文丹·鲁宾逊焦虑了整整一个星期. 上星期二他收到当地警察局的一封信, 要他到警察局去一趟. 丹奇怪警察为什么找他, 但昨天还是去了, 结果他不再担心了. 在警察局里, 一位面带笑容的警察告诉他, 他的自行车找到了. 那位警察对他说, 那辆自行车是5 天前在400 英里外的一个小村里发现的, 现在正用火车给他运回家来. 丹听到这个消息后, 惊奇万分, 但又感到非常好笑, 因为他从未指望那辆自行车还能找到. 这是20 年前丹还是一个 15 岁的孩子时被人偷走的! 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	Quick work 
 
quick   adj. 动作的快； fast   adv. 速度的快； soon adv. 时间快 have a quick meal 
	quick freeze 	速冻 
 
2、	Ted Robinson has been worried all the week. worried 	adj. 焦虑的，担心的 worry 	vt. 使担心，发愁 
	She appears to be worried by/about something. 	好象有什么事使她发愁。 
 
3、	Last Tuesday he received a letter from the local police. the local police 当地警察局 
	local 	adj. 地方性的，当地的，本地的 
local news 当地新闻 ； local color 当地色彩, 地方色彩 local people 当地人 ； local call 	市话 
native 	n. 土著人；adj. 土生土长的  
4、	In the letter he was asked to call at the station. 
call at (some place) 拜访某地 call on sb. 拜访某人 
ask/tell/expect/want/allow/request/order sb. to do sth. 	请求某人做某事 sb. was told 某人被告知；有人告诉某人 
I was told that yesterday you did something wrong. he was told that/to do (被动) = someone told him that… (主动) 
 
5 、 Ted wondered why he was wanted by the police, but he went to the station yesterday and now he is not worried any more. 
wonder 表示“想知道”时后面往往跟疑问词引导的从句 
She wondered who that man was/what had happened. 
want 用于被动语态时可以表示“想与（某人见面、谈话等）”或“缉拿，追捕” 
Please wait a minute. I’m wanted on the phone. 请等一下，有我的电话。 
This is the man (who is) wanted by the police. not......any more = no more 	不再, 再也不 
I don’t talk to you any more. 	我不再会对你谈话了 I walked no more. 	我不再走了 
 
6 、 Five days ago, the policeman told him, the bicycle was picked up in a small village four hundred miles away. 
	pick up 	（偶然地、意外地）找到、获得、学会 
I’ve picked up a bad cold. 
I picked up some French while traveling in Paris. 在巴黎游览期间我学了几句法语。 
	He picked up the book in a small library. 	他在一个小图书馆发现了那本书。 
five miles away 这一类结构可以直接做定语, 放在被修饰词后面  
 
The school is five miles away. 学校在五里外 the school five miles away 五里外的学校 
I live in a house which is five miles away. = I live in a house five miles away. 
 
7、	It is now being sent to his home by train. 
这句语是被动语态用于现在进行时，其结构为“am/is/are +being +过去分词” 
The clavichord is being repaired by a friend of my father’s. home 前一旦加修饰词(如文中的 his), 则其为名词  
8、	Ted was most surprised when he heard the news. most surprised 中的 most 有 very 的意思，常与起形容词作用的过去分词连用。 
 
【letter writting】在地址中我们通常使用缩略形式, 如 : “St.” (Street); “Rd.” (Road); “Sq.” (Square); “Ave.” (Avenue); “Pl.” 
(Place),而有些词则不用缩略形式,  如 “Lane”  和“Drive”（行车道） pics. 	pictures； secs. 	seconds 
 
【Special difficulties】 
与 call 有关的短语动词 
①	call on sb. 	拜访，探望 
Have you called on George recently? 
②	call (sb.) up 	给某人打电话（美语） 
If you want my help, just call up. 
③	call at +地点 对（某个人家或地方）进行短暂访问 
He calls at every house in the street once a month. 
④	call out 	大声叫喊 
Some people on the bank called out to the man in the boat. 
⑤	call off 	取消（某项活动） 
For some reason, they have called off the party/the meeting. 
⑥	call in 	召集 
Exercise 练习 
2  It's too late to go to the pictures. Why don't we call the whole thing ______ ? go to the pictures 	去看电影 
	call the whole thing off 	取消 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
8 All the police at the station are ___ b_ men. 
a. topical   	b. local 	 	c. native 	d. neighbourly local 	adj. 当地的； native 	adj. 自己在这里(祖祖辈辈都在这里) topical 	 adj. 时事问题的，热门话题的，题目的 
	neighbourly 	adj. 邻居的 