
 
	Lesson 93 	A noble gift 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（13） 
noble 	adj. 高尚的，壮丽的 
monument 	n. 纪念碑 
statue 	n. 雕像 
liberty 	n. 自由 
present 	v.  赠送 
sculptor 	n. 雕刻家 
actual 	adj. 实际的，真实的 
copper 	n. 铜 
support 	v.  支持，支撑 
framework 	n. 构架，框架 
transport 	v.  运送 
site 	n. 场地 
pedestal 	n. 底座 
 
	★ support 	v. 支持，支撑 
①	vt. 支持，支撑（某个具体东西） 
The actual figure was supported by a metal framework. 
Feeling weak, she supported herself against a desk and rested for a short time. 
②	vt. 拥护，赞成，支持（人、想法等） 
He made the right decision. Unfortunately, nobody supported him. 
I supported his opinion that another bridge should be built over the river. 
③ vt. 抚养，供养，赡养 
You need a high income these days to support a large family. My son can support himself now. 
 
【Text】 
One of the most famous monuments in the world, the Statue of Liberty, was presented to the United States of America in the nineteenth century by the people of France. The great statue, which was designed by the sculptor Auguste Bartholdi, took ten years to complete. The actual figure was made of copper supported by a metal framework which had been especially constructed by Eiffel. Before it could be transported to the United States, a site had to be found for it and a pedestal had to be built. The site chosen was an island at the entrance of New York Harbour. By 1884, a statue which was 151 feet tall had been erected in Paris. The following year, it was taken to pieces and sent to America. By the end of October 1886, the statue had been put together again and it was officially presented to the American people by Bartholdi. Ever since then, the great monument has been a symbol of liberty for the millions of people who have passed through New York Harbour to make their homes in America. 
 
参考译文 
 
世界上最著名的纪念碑之一的自由女神雕像是在 19 世纪时由法国人民赠送给美国的。这座由雕像家奥古斯特.巴索尔地设计的巨大雕像是用  10  年时间雕像刻成的。这座雕像的主体是用铜制成的，由艾菲尔特制的金属框架支撑着。在雕像被运往美国之前，必须为它选好一块场地，同时必须建造一个基座。场地选  在了纽约港入口处的一个鸟上。到 1884 年，一座高度达 151 英尺的雕像在巴黎竖立起来了。第二年，它被拆成若干小块，运到美国。到 1886 年 10 月底，这座雕像被重新组装起来，由巴索尔地正式赠送给美国人民。从那时起，这座伟大的纪念碑对通过纽约港进入美国定居的千百万人来说就一直是自由的象征。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、One of the most famous monuments in the world, the Statue of Liberty, was presented to the United States of America in the nineteenth century by the people of France. the Statue of Liberty 	自由女神像 the people 指某个国家的人民；指复数的“人们”时通常不加 the: 
A lot of /Few people went to their wedding.  
2、	The following year, it was taken to pieces and sent to America. 
	take…to pieces 	把……拆卸开/拆散 
This machine is too large to be transported in whole. It has to be taken to pieces first. 
 
3、	By the end of October 1886, the statue had been put together again and it was officially presented to the American people by Bartholdi. 
	put…together 	把……装配起来（take…to piece 的反义词） 
	I can’t put the broken vase together. 	我无法把那打碎的花瓶重新拼起来。 
 
4 、 Ever since then, the great monument has been a symbol of liberty for the millions of people who have passed through New York Harbour to make their homes in America. ever since then 	从那以后 make one’s home in… 	在……安家落户 
Ian (has) left England and made his home in China. 
 
【Special Difficulties】同形不同音的词 
许多词既可以作名词又可以作动作，但有些词为不同的词类使用时发音上，尤其是重音的位置会有变 
化，这些词有： 
 
accent 	v. 重读 	n. 重音， 
conduct 	v. 指挥；导电 	n. 行为， 
conflict 	v. 冲突 	n. 冲突， 
contest 	v. 争夺，竞争 	n. 比赛， 
contrast 	v. 形成对比 	n. 对比， 
export 	v. 输出，出口 	n. 出口， 
increase 	v. 增加 	n. 增加， 
insult 	v. 侮辱 	n. 侮辱， 
present 	v. 赠送 	n. 礼物， 
product 	v. 生产 	n. 农产品， 
 
protest 	v. 抗议 	n. 抗议， 
record 	v. 记录，录音 	n. 记录，唱片， 
refuse 	v. 拒绝 	n. 垃圾， 
transport 	v. 运输，运送 	n. 运输 