
 
	Lesson 74 	out of the limelight 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（7） 
limelight 	n. 舞台灯光 
precaution 	n. 预防措施 
fan 	n. 狂热者，迷 
shady 	adj. 遮荫的 
sheriff 	n. 司法长官 
notice 	n. 告示 
sneer 	n. 冷笑 
 
【Text】 
An ancient bus stopped by a dry river bed and a party of famous actors and actresses got off. Dressed in dark glasses and old clothes, they had taken special precautions so that no one should recognize them. But as they soon discovered, disguises can sometimes be too perfect. 
'This is a wonderful place for a picnic,' said Gloria Gleam. 
'It couldn't be better, Gloria,' Brinksley Meers agreed. 'No newspaper men, no film fans! Why don't we come more often?' 
Meanwhile, two other actors, Rockwall Slinger and Merlin Greeves, had carried two large food baskets to a shady spot under some trees. When they had all made themselves comfortable, a stranger appeared. He looked very angry. 'Now you get out of here, all of you!' he shouted. 'I'm sheriff here. Do you see that notice? It says "No Camping" -- in case you can't read!' 
'Look, sheriff,' said Rockwall, 'don't be too hard on us. I'm Rockwall Slinger and this is Merlin Greeves.' 
'Oh, is it?' said the sheriff with a sneer. 'Well, I'm Brinksley Meers, and my other name is Gloria Gleam. Now you get out of here fast!' 
 
参考译文 
一辆古旧的汽车停在一条干涸的河床边，一群著名男女演员下了车。他们戴着墨镜，穿着旧衣裳，特  
别小心以防别人认出他们。但他们很快就发觉，化装的效果有时过分完美了。 
“在这个地方野餐简直太妙了，”格格利亚.格利姆说。 
“是再好不过的了，格格利亚。”布林克斯利.米尔斯表示同意，“没有记者，没有影迷！我们为什么不经常来这里呢？” 
“此时，另外两位演员，罗克沃尔.斯林格和默林.格里夫斯，已经把两个大食品篮子提到了一片树荫下。当他们都已安排舒适时，一个陌生人出现了。他看上去非常气愤。“你们都从这里走开，全都走开！”他大叫着，
“我是这里的司法长官。你们看到那个布告牌了吗？上面写着‘禁止野营’－－除非你们不识字！” 
“好了，好了，司法官，”罗克沃尔说，“别使我们难堪。我是罗克沃尔.斯林格，这位是默林.格里夫斯。” 
“噢，是吗？”那位司法长官冷笑一声说道，“好，我就是布林克斯利.米尔斯。我还有一个名字叫格格利亚.格利姆。现在你们赶快滚吧！” 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	Out of the limelight 
limelight  的原义为舞台照明用的“石灰光”，其引申意义为“众人注目的中心”，这里的 limelight  是指舞
台。 
She has been in the limelight since she became an actress. Although he is a government official, he tries to keep out of the limelight. 
 
2、	An ancient bus stopped by a dry river bed and a party of famous actors and actresses got off. 
river bed 指河床，名词 river 作形容词用，类似的还有 flower bed（花坛） party 作量词用时表示“一行，一伙，一群”等，如 a party of tourists/boys（一群旅游者/男孩）等。  
3、	Why don't we come more often? 
“Why +don’t/doesn’t +主语 +动词？”结构可用来提出建议： 
Why don’t you change a watch? 
 
4、	'Now you get out of here, all of you!' he shouted. get out of here 从这里走开，滚出去，滚开 
	get fuck out of here 	给我从这滚出去 
 
5、	'I'm sheriff here. Do you see that notice? It says "No Camping" -- in case you can't read!' 
I'm sheriff here. （sheriff 是一种官衔，官衔前面不加冠词） 
	He is president. 	总统（官衔） 
Who is monitor? 谁是班长（官衔） 
	I am a teacher. 	teacher 不是官衔，加不定冠词 
in case + 从句 假使，万一……的话，免得，以防万一（常用于引导条件或目的状语从句，当句子表示将来的时间时，in case 后面必须用现在时态或 should/might） in case you can't read 除非你们不识字。 
I’m taking a raincoat with me in case I need it. In case he comes/should come, give him this letter. 
 
6、'don't be too hard on us. I'm Rockwall Slinger and this is Merlin Greeves.' be hard on… 对……（过分）严厉 
Don’t be too hard on that child. He is always hard on his employee. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 
与 get 有关的一些短语动词 
get out 
①	（使）出去/出来（反义词为 get into） 
Why don’t you get the dog out? 
The door is locked. I can’t get out. 
 
②	走开，滚开（常用于祈使句） 
Now you get out of here fast! 
	get into 	进来 
I’ve lost my key. I can’t get into the house. get on 
①	前进，进展（与get along 同义） 
He is getting on quite well in his new job. 
②	继续干；相处融洽（常与 with 连用） 
Tom talked with his brother for a while, and then got on with his homework. 
He’s so difficult. I can’t get on with him. 	他这个人这么别扭，我无法和他相处。 get…off 	脱下，除去/取下 
Please help me to get the box off the boat. 
When he got the lid off the box, he saw a man lying in it. get off 	没受重伤/重罚而逃脱（常与with 连用） 
Tom was punished, but Jim go off lightly. 
I can hardly believe that the thief got off with just a warning. 
get over 
①	恢复过来，痊愈 
Has your mother got over her illness? 
②	解决/结束（某件不愉快但必要做的事）（常与 with 连用） 
They wanted to get the job over as quickly as possible. 
get though 
①	通过（考试、测验等） 
Have you got through your driving test last week? 
②	吃掉，喝完，用光 
Fancy Helen getting through all the food! 
 
用于公共标语的 no 公共标语通常字数很少，语言精练。在表示“禁止……”时往往用 no+名词/动名词或名词短语，如 No 
Camping（禁止野营），No Smoking（禁止吸烟），No Parking（禁止停车），No Left Turn（禁止左转弯）。在真正的公告牌上，这些标语往往全部用大写字母，不加标点，如 NO SMOKING 等。 
On public notices we write No Camping instead of Do not camp. 在公告牌上我们不用 Do not camp，而用 No Camping。 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
5 Why don't we come more often? We ____ come more often. 
(a) could 	(b) would 	(c) might 	(d)should why not do 表示一种建议 
Why don't you go with me? = Why not go with me? 
建议句型： 
①	you must/should 	你必须/你应该（最好不要用） 
②	why don't we/why not 
③	let's do 
 
May I have your name? 
Why not close the door? 
Would you mind closing the door? 
Let's go shopping 
 
7 __a__ you look at the notice, you'll see it says ‘ No Camping ’ . 
(a) If (b) Providing that (c) Whether (d)In the situation providing that (过时，不用) = if =provided that（仍然在使用） 后面加从句。  