
 
	Lesson 14 	Do you speak English? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（7） 
amusing 	adj. 好笑的，有趣的 
experience 	n. 经历 
wave 	v.  招手 
lift 	n. 搭便车 
reply 	v.  回答 
language 	n. 语言 
journey 	n. 旅行 
 
	★ amusing 	adj. 好笑的, 有趣的 
The story is amusing. （好笑的） 
	amused 	adj. 感到好笑的（要笑出声） 
I am amused. 
	amuse 	v. 使发笑，使愉快 
The story amused me. 
funny    adj.  好笑的（不一定要笑出声可以指贬义），开心的，令人开心的 interesting / funny story 
 
	★ experience 	n.  经历（可数）；经验（不可数） 
①	n. 经历（可数） 
He has a lot of experiences. （经历，可数名词） 
②	n. 经验，体验（不可数） 
They want someone with a lot of experience for this job. （经验，不可数名词） Does she have any experience in teaching? 
③	vt. 经验，体验 
Have you ever experienced anything like this? The village has experienced great changes since 1980. 
	experienced 	adj. 有经验的，经验丰富的 
He is an experienced doctor. 
 
★	wave v. 招手 wave to sb. 向某人招手  
★	lift 	n. 搭便车 
take a bus/taxi/lift 乘公共汽车/乘出租汽车/搭便车 
B wants to take a lift. 某人想搭便车 
I want to take a lift. 
A give B a lift. 让某人搭便车 
The student gave me a lift. 
	thumb lift 	拇指便车(向过路车辆竖起拇指表示要求免费搭车) 
 
★ reply v. 回答 reply 与 answer 的区别： 
①	作为不及物动词是一样的 : 
He answered/replied. 
②	作为及物动词就不一样了 : answer sth. 
answer the letter 回信 reply to sth. 
	I will reply to the letter. 	回信 
 
★	language 	n. 语言 native language 	母语 
The native language is Chinese. 
	mother tongue 	母语(口语中用) 
My mother tongue is Chinese. 
 
★	journey 	n. 旅行 
journey 	n. 所有的旅行，偏重于陆地旅行 go on a journey 
2 hours' journey；3 days' journey(三天路程) 
trip 	n. 短距离旅行或出差(时间或距离上较短) go on a trip = go on business 
travel 	n. 周游（长途旅行） tour 	n. 游玩（为了玩） tourist  n. 游客voyage
 	 n. 旅行(海上) flight 	n. 空中飞行 
 
【Text】 
I had an amusing experience last year. After I had left a small village in the south of France, I drove on to the next town. On the way, a young man waved to me. I stopped and he asked me for a lift. As soon as he had got into the car, I said good morning to him in French and he replied in the same language. Apart from a few words, I do not know any French at all. Neither of us spoke during the journey. I had nearly reached the town, when the young man suddenly said, very slowly, "Do you speak English?' As I soon learnt, he was English himself!' 
 
参考译文去年我有过一次有趣的经历. 在离开法国南部的一个小村庄后, 我继续驶往下一个城镇. 途中, 一个青年人向我招手. 我把车停下, 他向我提出要求搭车. 他一上车, 我就用法语向他问早上好, 他也同样用法语回答我. 除了个别几个单词外, 我根本不会法语. 旅途中我们谁也没讲话. 就要到达那个镇时, 那青年突然开了口, 慢慢地说道 : “你会讲英语吗?”我很快了解到, 他自己就是个英国人! 
 
【课文讲解】 
 
1、After I had left a small village in the south of France, I drove on to the next town. 
after 引导的从句如果一个是过去时，一个是过去完成时，那一定是从句用过去完成时；before 引导的 
从句表示“在……之前”，主句发生在从句之前,  主句用过去完成时。 
	drive on 	继续开往（on 加在动词的后面表示继续） 
My heart will go on 《我心永恒》 
drive to 	开车去某地副词 on 紧跟在动词后面时可以表示“向前”、“继续下去”等意义： 
	He talked on until everybody had gone. 	他滔滔不绝地讲到大家都走了。 
I was reading when my friend called. After he had gone, I went on to read. 我朋友来看我时我正在看书。他走了以后我便继续看书。 
表达方位的表达方式一共有 3 个介词, in（在……里面）,on（接壤），to（没有相接的,  是相离的） 
A is to the east of B 	A 在 B 的东方（A 与 B 不相接） A is on the east of B 	 A 在 B 的东方（A 与 B 接壤） 
	A is in the east of B 	A 在 B 的东方（A 在 B 的里面） 
 
2、On the way, a young man waved to me. 
on the way 在路上, 在途中 wave to sb. 冲某人挥手  
3 、 As soon as he had got into the car, I said good morning to him in French and he replied in the same language. 
	as soon as 	一……就……，后面一定要加一个句子(时间状语从句), 强调两个动作几乎是连在一起 
的，“一” 后面的先发生 
As soon as I had entered the room,I took off my coat at once. As soon as I had received the letter,I ringed/called him back. 只要是状语从句, 一旦遇到将来时, 变为一般现在时 
As soon as you arrive,you must call me. 你一到就打我电话 
表示用某种语言作为交际手段时介词用  in，表示讲某种语言时可以不加介词。I speak English. I say a word in Chinese. That book is written in German. 
reply 要想加宾语要加 to (+要回答的内容)，而 in the same language 在句中作状语, 不是 replay 所应回 
答的问题(宾语), 故用 in 
 
4、Apart from a few words, I do not know any French at all. apart from… 	除……以外 not … at all 	一点都不，表强调 
I don't like it. I don't like it at all. 
 
5、I had nearly reached the town, when the young man suddenly said, very slowly, "Do you speak English?' nearly 	将要 
when 的翻译要看当时的具体情况, 在这里译为“就在此时” 
 I had nearly reached home when I found my mother standing there. 
 
Do you speak English? 你说英语吗? 你是说英语国家的人吗?（问的是一个事实，不是问会说英语吗） Do you swim? 你去游泳吗? 
Can you swim? 你会游泳吗? 
 
6、As I soon learnt, he was English himself!' 
I learn 我得知； I know 我知道(我本来就知道) 
As+主语+动词，从句 （As my mother said/As I heard/ As I learnt） 正如…… 
As we know,the New Concept English is very good. 正如我们所知…… 
As I think,it is the coldest day in the year. As he said, English is easy to learn. 
himself 反身代词单独放在句尾, 起强调作用 
I read English myself. 
 
【Key structures】 	 过去完成时 
过去完成时：由 had+过去分词构成，它表示过去某时或某动作发生之前已经完成的动作或情况，即“较 
早的过去”。过去完成时一定要以一个过去时态作铺垫, 这个动作一定要发生在 had done 之后。 
在用过去完成时态的句子中，常用连词 when，after，as soon as，until，by that time 等。常与现在完成时连用的副词如already，just，never，never…before 也常与过去完成时连用，以强调事件发生的先后次序： 
I didn’t know that she was a famous actress until you had told me. 
The boys loved the zoo. They had never seen wild animals before. 在那些用过去完成时的句子中没有明确的时间状语，但通过上下文可以看出动作发生的先后。 
 
Exercises D (用正确的时态填空) 
1	The moment he had said this, he ___  (regret) it. 
	the moment = as soon as 	一……就……，后面直接加从句 
2	It ______ (begin) to rain before she took a taxi. 
before 引导的从句用一般过去时, 主句用过去完成时 
 
【Special Difficulties】 Ask 与 Ask For： 
ask v. 问，询问；请求，要求，邀请 
	ask a question/ask sb. 	问（一个问题）/问某人 
I asked (Mary) a question. 
They asked Tony to sing a song. 
They asked her to spend the weekend with them. ask for 	要，要求（某样东西） ask for the answer 
I asked for a cup of coffee, but they gave me a cup of tea. 
 
You are always asking for help. 
 
Except, Except for 与 Apart from 
三者都表示“除……以外”，有时可以互换，但 except 不用于句首，except for 和 apart from 则可以。 
Everyone has helped in some way apart from/except for/except you. 
Apart from/Except for you, everyone has helped in some way. 
apart from 习惯上喜欢放句首, apart from=except/besides 
如果认为整体之中做这件事情的人除了整体之外，还有这个人也做了（包括），是加号=besides；如果认为整体之中做这件事情的人除了整体之外，这个人没有做（排除），是减号=except；如果放在句首，统一用apart from 代替 except/besides 
All the passengers are millionaire except us. （减号） 
I invited everyone except George. / Except for George I invited everyone. Except for/apart from this, everything is in order. 
except for 含有对整体中的某一个方面不满意，except for  可以不放在句首,  强调整体当中某一方面除外, 剩下的整体都不错 
The article is very good except for his handwriing. Except for his height, he is very excellent. 
 
Which of，Either of，Neigher of 与 Both of 
上面这些短语都可用于指两个人或两件事 either of 	两者当中的任何一个 
neither of 两者都不 which of 那一个 both of 两者都 
① 当询问在两个或更多的人或事物中偏爱哪一个或选择哪一个时，可用 which 
I like both of these bags. Which of the two do you prefer? 
② either 与 neither 都是对两个人或物而言（后接单数名词）。either 指 one or the other（不是这个就是那个），either 和 neither 后跟 of 时则指两个事物中的每一个 either of sb. ……当中的任何一个 
neither of sb. ……当中的任何一个都不（neither of（注意英音与美音的读音）两者之间都不, 一旦 
出现, 这句话里面不会再出现 not） 
I don't like the book. My sister doesn't like it either. 
	Neither of us likes it. 	(注意要用单数) 
Which bag shall I use? 
	Either of them. It doesn’t matter which. 	哪个都行。用哪个都没关系。 
	Neither of them. Use a suitcase. 	哪个都不行。用个手提箱吧。 
③ both 只指两个人或物。当它用在名词前时，of 可有可无；当用在代词前面时，其后必须加 of 
Both books/Both of the books are interesting. Both of us/them left early. 
④none of 三者或三者以上之间都不 
 
Exercise 
 
5	He could not answer(neither of)(either of)the questions I (asked)(asked for). either of（前面有 not, 故只能选 either of） , asked 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
6	I speak a few words of French. I don't know ___b___ French. 
a. many 	b. much 	c. plenty of 	d. a little French 不可数, 不能用 many plenty of 足够多的；not…plenty of 不够多 
not much = a little 一些 
not a little = much 很多 
 
7 Neither of us spoke. We _   c___ . 
	a. neither spoke 	b. either spoke 
c. both didn't speak d. neither didn't speak neither 不会和 not 连用；不能说 we neither，只能说 neither of us 
either 	任何一个 both 	两者都 
we both/ both of us 两个都 
 
11 He replied in French. He ___b___ the writer in French. 
a. responed b. answered c. returne d. remarked responded 和 replied 用法一样，replied 后面加宾语一定要加 to，answer 可以直接加宾语  
9 The young man waved to the writer. He ___c___ him. 
a. salute 	 	b. greeted 	c. signalled to 	d. nodded salute 	v. 行军礼, 军人的问候 
The soldier saluted his officer. 士兵的问候 greet v.  问候 ； signal v. 发出信号  
10 He asked for a lift. He was a ___b___. 
	a. tramp 	b. hitch hiker 	c. passenge 	d. foreigner 
	tramp 	n. 流浪汉 ；hitch hiker 搭便车的人 ；passenger n. 乘客(指要付车钱的那种) 
 
12 The writer had ___b_ reached the town when the young man spoke. 
a.often 	b.almost 	c.sometimes 	d.just as almost=nearly 
just as+时间从句 正当……时候 