
 
 
	Lesson 27 	A wet night 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（15） 
tent 	n. 帐篷 
field 	n. 田地，田野 
smell 	v. 闻起来 
wonderful 	adj. 极好的 
campfire 	n. 营火，篝火 
creep 	v. 爬行 
sleeping bag 	睡袋 
comfortable 	adj. 舒适的，安逸的 
soundly 	adv. 香甜地 
leap 	v. 跳跃，跳起 
heavily 	adv. 大量地 
stream 	n. 小溪 
form 	v.  形成 
wind 	v.  蜿蜒 
right 	adv. 正好 
 
★	field n. 田地, 田野 in the field   在田野里 in one's field  在……领域 
He is an expert in his field. football field  	足球场地 airfield 	飞机场(介词用 on) 
 
★	smell (smelled，smelt) 	v. 闻起来 
① vt. 嗅，闻 
I’m smelling the fish to see if it’s all right. 我正在闻这条鱼，看看它是否还新鲜。 
I can smell something burning. 
② vi. 闻起来有……气味，散发……气味
You smell of soap. 你身上有肥皂味。 smell 系动词, 接表语, 接形容词 
The food smelt good. (不能说成 “smell well” , “well” 是副词, 身体好才用 “well” ) taste 	v. 尝起来 
The food smelt good,and it tasted better. sound 	v. 听起来 feel 	v. 感到 
① 心理感到 
I feel ill. 
②	用手的感受 
The blackbroad felt cold. 
 
感官动词：look，taste，sound，smell，feel 
You look fine. 
You look better. 
You look beautiful. 
③	n. 气味 
I can’t stand the smell in this room. 
 
★	wonderful 	adj. 极好的 
Great ! (与物相连，口语中用得更多) 
	Excellent ! 	adj.卓越的, 极好的(与人相连) 
She is an excellent teacher. 
Outstanding ! (人) 好得站了出来 
	Brilliant! 	adj.灿烂的, 闪耀的, 有才气的 
Fantastic! 
 
★	campfire n. 营火, 篝火 fire 可数也不可数 (一堆堆的火为可数, 炉子里的火为不可数) 
 
★	creep (crept，crept) 	v. 爬行 (蹑手蹑脚的) 也是平行的爬 creep out 	 	蹑手蹑脚(别人不注意, 偷偷摸摸的) climb 	v. 爬 
climb the tree， climb up or down (上下爬) crawl 	v. 平行地爬 
The baby is crawling on the floor. 
 
★	sleeping bag 睡袋动词加 ing 变成形容词作定语有两个意思 : 
① 正在…… 如：sleeping dog passing plane 	 正在路过的飞机 ② 用来做…… 如：leeping bag listening material 	听力材料； walking stick 	拐杖  
★	soundly 	adv. 香甜地 sleep soundly 	睡得很甜 
表示睡觉的短语：go to bed 上床/go to sleep 睡觉/fall asleep 坠入梦乡（fall 为半联系动词）/sleep well 
睡得很好/sleep deeply 睡得很沉/fall fast asleep 睡得好香（fast asleep 熟睡） 
 
★	leap 	v. 跳跃, 跳起 jump 	v. 跳 
	jump up and down 	原地跳跃 
	leap 	v. 跳跃, 有距离(如从沟的这边跳到另一边, 位置变化) 
Look before you leap. 	三思而后行 leap year/month 	闰年/月 
	skip 	v. 课文行的跳过去，单词，文章 
Let us skip it? 
 
★	heavily 	adv. 大量地 rain/snow heavily 	一般与雨雪连用 smoke heavily 	烟瘾重 
He smokes heavily. 
 
★	form 	v. 形成 
①	vi. 形成，产生 
During the conversation, an idea formed in his mind. 
Ice forms when it is cold enough. 如果冷到一定的程度，冰就会形成。 
②	n. 形状，外形 
The ice cream is made in the form of a ball. 
③	n. 表格 
If you want to enter for the competition, you must fill in these forms. 如果你想报名参加比赛，你必须填写这些表格。 
 
	★ wind (wound；wound) 	v. 蜿蜒 
①	v. 蜿蜒 
wind one's way 蜿蜒而行 
The road winds its way. 
②	n. 风；v. 刮风 
 
	★ right 	adv. 正好 
right 做副词时强调后边的形容词、副词、介词短语，不强调动词，可用 just 来替换
Right here. 就在这儿 
“Right here waiting for you” 《在此等候》 
I found my lost watch right in the graden. 我就在花园里找到了我丢失的手表 just like 正好； just as 正 如 
后边加代词时只能用 just，如：just you 就是你了，不能用“right”代替 
 
【Text】 
Late in the afternoon, the boys put up their tent in the middle of a field. As soon as this was done, they cooked a meal over an open fire. They were all hungry and the food smelled good. After a wonderful meal, they told stories and sang songs by the campfire. But some time later it began to rain. The boys felt tired so they put out the fire and crept into their tent. Their sleeping bags were warm and comfortable, so they all slept soundly. In the middle of the night, two boys woke up and began shouting. The tent was full of water! They all leapt out of their sleeping bags and hurried outside. It was raining heavily and they found that a stream had formed in the field. The stream wound its way across the field and then flowed right under their tent! 
 
参考译文 
傍晚时分, 孩子们在田野中央搭起了帐篷. 这件事刚刚做完, 他们就在篝火上烧起了饭. 他们全都饿了, 饭菜散发出阵阵香味. 他们美美地吃了一顿饭后, 就围在营火旁讲起了故事, 唱起了歌. 但过了一阵子. 天下起雨来, 于是他们扑灭了篝火, 钻进了帐篷. 睡袋既暖和又舒服, 所以, 他们都睡得很香. 午夜前后, 有两个孩子醒了, 大声叫了起来. 原来帐篷里到处都是水!他们全都跳出睡袋, 跑到外面. 雨下得很大, 他们发现地上已经形成了一条小溪. 那小溪弯弯曲曲穿过田野, 然后正好从他们的帐篷底下流过去. 
 
【课文讲解】汉语与英文只有意义的对等, 没有字的对等 
My idea is the same as yours. 我的想法与你一样的 
I agree with you.(口语) I think so.(口语) 
 
1、A wet night 
英文中表示 “湿” 的词：wet，damp，moist (湿的程度减少) wet adj. 湿淋淋的（反义词是 dry） 
You are wet. 
	damp 	adj. 让人感觉不太舒服 
	moist 	adj. 潮湿的； n. 潮湿，稍湿（给人感觉舒服，如湿润） 
moist cake 松软的蛋糕 moist eyes 水灵灵的眼睛 dreamy eyes  梦幻般的眼睛 
humid 	adj. 指气候比较潮湿  
2、Late in the afternoon, the boys put up their tent in the middle of a field. 
late in the afternoon 傍 晚 early in the morning 清早 
put up =set up 搭建（强调搭，如搭个草棚等） build 建（强调精心设计并且建造） 
build a car 制造汽车 (一般不用 “make a car” ) make a desk 
 
	in the middle of 	在……当中，在……中间（相对两边，既可以用于表示地理位置，又可以用于表 
示时间或在某个过程当中) 
	in the middle of the river 	河中心 
He heard someone shouting in the middle of the night. 
Mary was in the middle of reading when her aunt arrived. 
in the center of 在……中心，在……中部/中央（相对四面，一般用于表示地理位置，腹地）在陆地的腹地用 “center” 
Alice Spring is a small town in the centre of Australia. 
 
3、	As soon as this was done, they cooked a meal over an open fire. 
open fire 在野外生的火, 篝火，盆火（指无遮盖的、没有围起来的火） 
cook a meal 做一顿饭  
4、	After a wonderful meal, they told stories and sang songs by the campfire. 表示“在……之后”的句式：after+从句/doing/n. 
after I arrived => After my arrival 在我到达之后
when the plane arrived => after the arrival of the plane After his arrival, we have a party. After the arrival of the flowers,I took them and went to my girlfriend's. 
 
在……旁边： 
at the door 门边, (紧挨着的) sit at the table 桌边 
	by 	在……旁边，靠近 (不会紧挨着的, 但也不会很远，通常指距离非常近) 
Come and sit by me. 
There are many trees by the river. 
next to 
He sits next to me./who is the next? 	（表示紧邻着的） the next door to my house（next door 在隔壁） beside = next to 	与……相邻 next to /beside the village 
near 	在附近 near the village 
 
5、But some time later it began to rain. 
some time later   一段时间之后 some time earlier  一段时间之前 some time ago 一段时间以前 
a few hours earlier 几小时前 later  表示“后来、以后、过后” 
He told me he would come again later (on). 
I met her again a few days later.  
6、The boys felt tired so they put out the fire and crept into their tent. put out 	人为的熄灭火 
I put out the fire. 
	be out 	火自动熄灭 
The fire is out. 
 
7、	In the middle of the night, two boys woke up and began shouting. 
in the middle of the night=midnight 
at midnight 	在午夜 the mid-autumn day 	中秋节 
	wake up 	醒来（主语自己醒） 
	wake sb. up 	唤醒 
开始干某事：begin doing/start doing/begin to do/start to do  
8、	It was raining heavily and they found that a stream had formed in the field. 
如果强调某东西自动形成, 则可以用主动态, 如果强调某东西是人为的, 用被动态，在这里 river 
formed 河流是自动形成 
	When I'm getting close to the door,the door opened. 	(自动门) 
	The door opened. 	强调门自动开 
The door was opened. 门被打开, 强调人为的 
 
10、The stream wound its way across the field and then flowed right under their tent! wind 表示“曲折而行”时，既可以是及物动词，又可以是不及物动词 wound one's way 蜿蜒而行 
The car wound through the village. 
right 在此处表示强调，意为“正好、恰恰、就”，这种用法多见于口语中： 
I met him right here. He hit the man right on the nose. 
 
【Composition】 
I am very tall(so)(but)I must be careful. Doorways are often low(and)(but)I usually(beat)(knock)my head against them. My head always(hurts)(pains). I have never(met)(recognized)a tall architect. Have you? so，and，knock，hurts，met doorways 	n. 门栏 
knock/beat：knock 大声地撞；beet 持续的撞击/打 against prep. 相对作用的力 (在政治上叫 “反对” ) hurt/pain：身体的某一部位+hurts，表示某一部疼痛；pain 表示疼痛的名词 
My hand hurts./I have a pain in my hand. I have a pain. 
meet 遇见 / recognize 认出 (原来熟悉再次认出的概念) 
 
【Letter writing】 
信头各部分的顺序如下：门牌号码、街名、城市名称、地区、国家和日期。只有给居住在国外的人写  
信时，才需要写上国名。 
地址的每一行都以逗号结尾，最后一行用句号。在日期后面不用标点符号。 
 
【Special Difficulties】 
与 put 有关的短语动词： put up with 容忍，忍受 
I can’t believe that he can put up with this.  
put up 
①	搭建，搭建； 
They put up their tent in the middle of a field. 
②	安排住宿，为……提供膳宿，夜宿 
It’s raining heavily. We must put them up tonight. 雨下得很大，我们今晚必须为他们安排住宿。 
	put out 	扑灭 
They put out the fire and crept into their tent. 
	put on 	穿上 
I’m putting on my coat. 
	put away 	把……收好，放好 
Your room is untidy, put your things away. I have put away all my clothes. put off 	推迟，拖延 
Don’t put your exercises off until tomorrow. The meeting has been put off. 
	put down = write down 	记下，写下，记录下 
Have you put down the boss’s words? 
 
【Multiple Choice】 
6 They sang songs by the campfire. They sang songs _b___ the campfire. 
a. close  b. near c. besides d. at beside 在……旁边； besides 除……之外 close to 离……很近(必须要有 “to” ) close to me 离我很近 
my closest friends 	我最亲密的朋友  
9 The boys had put out the campfire. The fire wasn't ___d_ . 
	a. switched on 	b. on fire 	c. on 	d. alight 
be on 上演, 亮着的(一般指灯亮着的) 
What's on in the cinema today? 
The lights were on last night. 
	switch 	n. 开关；v.  用开关 
The light was switched on. 	强调通过开关打开的 on fire 	起火 
The house is on fire. 房子起火了 alight 以 a 开头的形容词为表语形容词
The fire was out. 火熄灭了 