
 
	Lesson 67 	Volcanoes 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（12） 
volcano 	n. 火ft 
active 	adj. 活动的 
Kivu 	n. 基伍湖 
Congo 	n. 刚果 
Kituro 	n. 基图罗 
erupt 	v. （火ft）喷发 
violently 	adv. 猛烈地，剧烈地 
manage 	v. 设法 
brilliant 	adj. 精彩的 
liquid 	adj. 液态的；n. 液体 
escape 	v. 逃脱 
alive 	adj. 活着的 
 
★	active 	adj. 活动的 active 	adj. 积极的 passive 	adj. 消极的, 被动的  
★	violently 	adv. 猛烈地, 剧烈地 violent 	adj. 猛烈的, 激烈的, 暴力引起的, 强暴的 violence 	n. 猛烈, 强烈, 暴力, 暴虐, 暴行, 强暴  
★	manage 	v. 设法 
manage to do sth. = try to do sth. and succeed I can manage it. = I can manage it myself. = I can do it. 
 
★	escape 	v. 逃脱 
①	v.  逃脱 escape sth. 
escape death 	死里逃生 escape doing sth. 
He escape punishment/being punished. 
②	n. 逃脱 narrow escape 九死一生  
	★ alive 	adj. 活着的 
alive 做定语时一定要放在被修饰词后面, 属于表语形容词，后置定语 light ahead 	前面的灯光 
Every man alive has his/her own troubles. 
	living sth. 	活着的…… 
 
living elephant 	活着的象 live 
①	adj. 现场的，活着的（永远不和人连用） live concert 现场演唱会 live fish 活鱼（不能和人连） 
②	v. 活着 
 
【Text】 
Haroun Tazieff, the Polish scientist, has spent his lifetime studying active volcanoes and deep caves in all parts of the world. In 1948, he went to Lake Kivu in the Congo to observe a new volcano which he later named Kituro. Tazieff was able to set up his camp very close to the volcano while it was erupting violently. Though he managed to take a number of brilliant photographs, he could not stay near the volcano for very long. He noticed that a river of liquid rock was coming towards him. It threatened to surround him completely, but Tazieff managed to escape just in time. He waited until the volcano became quiet and he was able to return two days later. This time, he managed to climb into the mouth of Kituro so that he could take photographs and measure temperatures. Tazieff has often risked his life in this way. He has been able to tell us more about active volcanoes than any man alive. 
 
参考译文波兰科学家哈罗恩·塔捷耶夫花了毕生的精力来研究世界各地的活火ft和深洞. 1948 年他去了刚果的基伍湖, 对一座后来被他命名为基图罗的新火ft进行观察. 当火ft正在猛烈地喷发时, 塔捷耶夫有办法把帐篷搭在离它非常近的地方. 尽管他设法拍了一些十分精彩的照片, 但他却不能在火ft附近停留太长的时间. 他发现有一股岩浆正向他流过来, 眼看就要将他团团围住, 但塔捷耶夫还是设法及时逃离了. 他等到火ft平静下来, 两天以后又返回去. 这次他设法爬进了基图罗火ft口, 以便能拍摄照片和测试温度. 塔捷耶夫经常冒这样的生命危险. 他能告诉我们的有关活火ft的情况比任何在世的人都要多. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	Haroun Tazieff, the Polish scientist, has spent his lifetime studying active volcanoes and deep caves in all parts of the world. 
spend some time (in) doing sth. 	花多少时间干…… lifetime 	n. 毕生精力 
spend most of his lifetime 	花了毕生大部分精力 spend his lifetime 	花了毕生精力 in all parts of the world 	世界各地的  
2、	Tazieff was able to set up his camp very close to the volcano while it was erupting violently. close to 离……很近，与……靠近 
He parked the car close to the river. 
Don’t sit so close to the fire. 
for long＝for a long time 
 
3、	He noticed that a river of liquid rock was coming towards him. 
=He notice a river of liquid rock coming towards him. 
notice that + 宾语从句 notice sth. 
notice sb. do/doing sth. 	注意到某人做某事/正在做某事 a river of… ……形成的河流 
	a river of soil and stone 	泥石流 
	Rivers of blood flowed during World war II. 	（rivers of blood 	血流成河） 
When she heard the news, a river of tears came down her face. 
 
4、It threatened to surround him completely, but Tazieff managed to escape just in time. threaten to 	威胁着要……，有迹象表明…… 
	He threatened to leave the team. 	他扬言要离开这个队。 
in time 及时，来得及，just 表示“正好，差一点” 
I caught the train just in time. Shall we still be in time for/to see the performance? 
 
5、	This time, he managed to climb into the mouth of Kituro so that he could take photographs and measure temperatures. 
manage to do sth. 	设法做到某事，努力完成某事（虽然很费劲，但仍然做到/完成某事） try to do sth. 	设法做某事，努力做某事（但并不一定成功） the mouth of Kituro 	火ft口 
so that 以便于(目的状语从句),一定含有情态动词  
6、	Tazieff has often risked his life in this way. risk one’s life 冒着生命危险 take a risk of… =at a risk of…  冒着……的危险 risk sth.＝risk losing sth. 冒着失去……的危险 risk doing sth. 冒着做……的危险 
 
7、	He has been able to tell us more about active volcanoes than any man alive. 
在两相比较中, 如果前者属于后者, 那一定要在比较时用 other, else 排除前者 than any other man alive 
 
【Key structures】 
Can, Be able to and Manage to 
表示能力时用 can/could，在将来时中表示“能力”时通常用 will be able to，在表示成功地完成过去某个动作时用 was able to 而不用 could。 
He thought he could pass the exam easily, but he failed. 
I can’t remember where I’ve seen him. 
Jane can’t swim yet. She’ll be able to swim in a few months’ time. 
manage to 在表示成功地完成过去某个动作时，经常代替 be able to，它更强调“虽然困难很大，但仍然……”。在否定句中，manage to 与 be able to 经常可以互换。  
 
He was able to finish the job yesterday. （表示可能） 
	He managed to finish the job yesterday. 	（暗示他克服了不少困难才完成） 
What do you think of the film? I’m afraid I haven’t managed to/been able to see it yet. 
 
【Special Difficulties】
带 say 与 tell 的短语
1、	say 
在表示“说，讲”时，say 后面不跟间接宾语（人）。如果一定要指明，则用“to +名词/代词”。表示“道别，
诵读（祈祷），背诵”等含义时用 say 而不能用 tell。say 有“表达（思想、意见等）”、“据说”含义， tell 则没有。 
John is said to be very interested in art. 
Do you have anything to say about the accident? 关于这次事故你有什么想说的/想法？ 
	He knelt down and said his prayers.  	他跪了下来作祷告. 
He said goodbye and left. 	他告辞后离开了. say a good word for 	为……说好话/辩护；推荐 
Don’t expect that he’ll say a good word for you. 
2、	tell 
在表示“说，讲”时，tell 后面可以跟双宾语。tell 经常用于表示“讲（实话，谎话，秘密等）”。tell 
可以表示“辨别，分辨”，say 则不可以。在英国英语中，tell  the  time（美语为 tell  time）表示根据钟表等 
“说出时间，识钟” 
	Can you tell me anything about it? 	你能告诉我有关的任何事情吗? 
He is only five, but he can already tell the time. 
	tell (sb.) a lie 	说谎（谎言有很多个，为可数名词） 
	He often tells lies. 	他经常说谎. 
tell (sb.) the truth 	讲真话(真话只有一个,故要特指, 加 the) I want you to tell me the truth. 	我要你讲真话. tell (sb.) the difference between 区分, 区别 
Can't you tell the difference between an Austin and a Morris? 你能区分奥斯丁舞和莫利斯舞吗? 
say 和 tell 后面跟 so 时含义不一样： 
I told you so! 我告诉过你是这样的！（用于情况被证实之后） Who says so? 谁这么说的？ 
	I say so. 	我这么说的。 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4 He escaped just in time. He d__ escaped. 
(a)just only 	(b)only 	(c)soon 	(d) only just only just ＝almost not 	 差点就没有 
 
7 He has been able to tell us a lot __b__volcanoes. 
	(a) considering 	(b) on the subject of 
 
	(c) in relation 	(d) referring 
on the subject of＝about (朝向)towards＝in the direction of  
12 He has told us more than any __d__person. 
(a)alive 	 	(b)lively 	(c)live 	(d)living lively 	adj. 活泼的,充满生机的 a lively girl  