
 
	Lesson 20 	One man in a boat 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语 5） catch 	v. 抓到 
	fisherman 	n. 钓鱼人，渔民 
boot 	n. 靴子 waste n. 浪费 realize v. 意识到 
 
	★ catch 	v. 抓到 
①	vt. 捉住，逮住，捕获 
The police have caught the thief. 
Have you caught any fish today? 
②	vt. 抓住，握住 
Can you catch the ball? 
③	vt. 及时赶到，赶上 
	catch a bus 	赶车 
I want to catch the eight nineteen (train) to London. 
④ catch 的一些固定用法 catch a cold 	染上感冒 catch one's breath 	摒住呼吸 catch sight of = see 	 看见 catch fire 着火 catch one's eyes 	吸引某人注意力  
★	boot n. 靴 子 a pair of boots 一双靴子  
★	waste n. 浪费 ① n. 浪费 a waste of… 浪费…… 
It is a waste of time/money/food/water. 
② vt. 浪费 
You are wasting time. 
 
	★ realize 	v. 意识到 
① v. 认识，知道，明白，意识到 
	I went into the wrong room without realizing it. 	我无意中走错了房间。 
I realized that I was wrong. 
②	v. 实现（希望、目标、愿望等） 
	realize one's dream 	实现某人的梦想 
 
She has realized her hope to be an actress. 
③	使变为事实，使发生（常用于被动语态） 
This plan can never be realized. 
 
【Text】 
Fishing is my favourite sport. I often fish for hours without catching anything. But this does not worry me. Some fishermen are unlucky. Instead of catching fish, they catch old boots and rubbish. I am even less lucky. I never catch anything -- not even old boots. After having spent whole mornings on the river, I always go home with an empty bag. 'You must give up fishing!' my friends say. 'It's a waste of time.' But they don't realize one important thing. I'm not really interested in fishing. I am only interested in sitting in a boat and doing nothing at all! 
 
参考译文钓鱼是我特别喜爱的一项运动. 我经常一钓数小时却一无所获, 但我从不为此烦恼. 有些垂钓者就是不
走运, 他们往往鱼钓不到, 却钓上来些旧靴子和垃圾. 我的运气甚至还不及他们. 我什么东西也未钓到过 -- 就连旧靴子也没有. 我总是在河上呆上整整一上午, 然后空着袋子回家. “你可别再钓鱼了!” 我的朋友们说, “这是浪费时间. “然而他们没有认识到重要的一点, 我并不是真的对钓鱼有兴趣, 我感兴趣的只是独坐孤舟, 无所事事! 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Fishing is my favourite sport. 
fishing 是一个动名词，由动词+ing 组成，动名词可以作主语或宾语，如 eating，reading 等等 
★ fish 
①	n.  鱼（不可数名词），鱼的种类（可数） 
There are a lot of fishes(表示种类)in the sea. 
②	v. 钓鱼, 捕鱼  
2、I often fish for hours without catching anything. for+时间 	表示一段时间 
	for hours=for some hours 	数小时 
without catching anything 作为状语而出现, 表示结果状语。without 是介词，后面一定要加宾语, 动名词 catching 作 without 的宾语，without 后面的动作是主语来做的。动名词也有动词的特性，可以有自己的宾语。 
without 通常表示“缺乏、没有”；当它位于动名词前时，表示“不曾、不” 
I can’t repair the car without your help. 
They tried to leave the restaurant without paying. He went out without saying any words.  
3、But this does not worry me. 
★ worry 
① v. 烦恼，担扰 
worry sb. 某人为……烦恼，担扰（作动词一定要加人作宾语, 翻译时从后往前翻，宾语担心） 
The house worried me. / My daughter worried me. 
① adj. 担心 be worried about ……为……担心 
I was never worried about this. = This does not worry me. 
 
4、Instead of catching fish, they catch old boots and rubbish. 
	instead of… 	我原准备做……但是后来做了……（instead of 后面的词一定是没有做的, 可以放在 
主句后面） 
	I went to school instead of staying at home. 	我没呆在家里而是去上学了 
I bought books instead of buying dresses. 
without 强调没有做某件事, instead of 强调这件事没做成而做成了另外一件事副词 instead“作为替代，反而”，单独使用时一般出现在句尾 
If you don’t want a holiday in England, why don’t you go to Australia instead? 
 
5、I am even less lucky. 
less 是 little 的比较级，意为“不及，不如，更少” 
I spend less time on English than on French. 
less+原形 
	A is less…than B 	A 不如B 
 
6、After having spent whole mornings on the river, I always go home with an empty bag. 
	spend+时间+在某地 	在某地度过……时间 
after <conj.>+从句 在……之后 
after <prep.>+名词/动词的 ing 形式 ……之后（从句主语必须是主句的主语时两种形式可互换） 
After I go to school, I learned a lot of knowledge. (用一般式表示一个事实, 不用 “went to” ) After going to school, I learned a lot of knowledge. 介词after 的宾语的动名词 having spent 所表示的动作发生在谓语动词 go 之前，所以动名词用完成形式。 
 
with an empty bag 注意连读 
	with sth. 	有……的，持有……的，随身带着……(状语) 
Who’s the man with the beard? 
without sth. 没带…… 
I always go home without angthing. 什么都没带回家 
 
7、	'You must give up fishing!' my friends say. 
give up doing sth. = stop doing sth. 	放弃做某事 Give up smoking. 
 
8、	I'm not really interested in fishing. 
	be intersted in sth. / doing sth. 	对……感兴趣 
I’m interested in collecting stamps. 
【Key structures】 	 
动名词 
动词+ing 作名词时称为动名词，它仍有动词的属性，可以接宾语，动名词可以代替名词做主语和宾语 
或介词宾语。 
1、动名词作主语 
Watching television is my favourite pastime. 看电视是我最喜爱的业余爱好. 2、动名词作宾语 
I am very keen on cycling. 我非常喜欢骑自行车. 
He is capable of doing anything. 他能胜任任何事情. 
3、利用介词/副词+动名词可以把两个句子连成一个句子
	apologize for (not) doing sth. 	为什么事情而道歉 
	I must apologize. I interrupted you. 	我得表示道歉. 我打断了你的说话(工作). 
I must apologize for interrupting you. 
由于打断了你的说话(工作), 我得表示道歉. （for interrupting 强调 interrupt 这个动词） 
I must apologize for having interrupted you.（for having interrupted 强调interrupt 这个动词先发生，强调时间 (having done)） 
以上两者为时间概念不同，意思相同 
	congratulate (sb.) on doing sth. 	因……祝贺（某人） 
	He congratulated me. I won the competition. 	他向我道贺. 我赢得了这次比赛. 
	He congratulated me on winning the competition. 	在我赢得这次比赛之际, 他向我祝贺. 
He congratulated me on having won the competition. thank you for listening/attending 
动名词用表示完成时的  having+过去分词结构往往强调动名词的动词发生在前面。4、跟动名词的短语 
be  keen  on  doing  sth.（热忠于……）,be  fond  of,be  interested  in,enjoy  doing  sth.（喜欢做某事）， 
congratulations on doing sth. （祝贺……） be afraid of 
be up to=be capable of (capable adj.有能力的, 能干的, 有可能的, 可以...的) 可以带动名词的介词有：before，after，without，instead of 等 I can’t watch TV without falling asleep. 	我看电视时必定会睡着。 
5、动名词的否定式是在它前面直接加 not。 
 
Exercises C(用括号中的词来连接下列句子, 如需要可对原句进行必要的改动) 
2.She bought a pair of boots. (instead of) She did not get a pair of shoes. 
She bought a pair of boots instead of getting a pair of shoes. ＝She bought a pair of boots instead of a pair of shoes.  
4.(After) She heard the news. She fainted. 
after+从句； after prep.+doing 
	After hearing the news,she fainted. 	（faint 	vi.昏晕, 昏倒） 
 
6.(On) I saw the plane coming towards me. I dashed for cover 
on (prep.)+doing 一……就……（两个动作必须是同一个人） 
On seeing the plane coming towards me, I dashed for cover. 冲进掩护体 as soon as 一……就…… the moment +从句 一……就…… 以上两个主语不一定是同一个人 
 
【Special Difficulties】 
Interested and Interesting. Excited and Exciting. 
大多数现在分词和许多过去分词都可以作形容词用。以-ed 结尾的形容词常与人称主语连用，表示人的 
情绪、状态、喜好等；以-ing 结尾的形容词则常与非人称主语连用，表明事物的某种特征、性质等。 
Fishing is not interesting. I am not really interested in fishing. 钓鱼没意思. 我对钓鱼并不真正感兴趣. 
The match was very exciting. The crowd got very excited. 比赛非常激动人心. 观众非常激动. 
be interested in sth./doing sth. 对……感兴趣 
I’m interested in collecting stamps. 
 
It's and Its it’s = it is 
It's (= it is) cold today. It's raining too. 今天天气冷. 而且正在下雨. 
	its 	它的 
This engine has lost its power. 这台发动机已失去了动力. 
 
Realize and Understand 
	realize 	vt. 意识到…… 
He didn't realize that he had made a mistake. 他没有意识到他犯了一个错误. understand 	vt. 明白…… 
I don't understand English. 我不懂英语. 
 
Exercises(选择正确的词填空) 
3.	There was some (excited) (exciting) news on the radio. exciting news 
excited    adj. 感动的 ；exciting    adj. 令人激动的如果–ed,-ing 做形容词即作定语时，和被修饰词有关on 
the radio 在广播上 I got news on the radio/on TV/on the telephone/on the line(在线，在电话里). 
 
4.	He is not an (interesting) (interested) person. 
an interesting person 
interested 	adj. 感兴趣的 ；interesting 	adj. 有趣的  
5.	He is an explorer. He leads an (excited) (exciting) life. 
an exciting life 
explorer n.探险家, 探测者, 探测器 lead a life 过着……日子 lead a happy life He leads a poor life. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
2 The writer enjoys ___c___ . 		
	a.catching fish 	b.fishing 
enjoying doing sth 
I enjoy reading books. enjoy + n. I enjoy books.  
6 His bag is empty. He has ___b___ . 	c.doing nothing 	d.swimming in the river 
	a.a empty bag 	b.an empty bag 	c.empty bag 	d.one empty bag 
an 指一个, 强调名词；one 一个, 强调 one,强调数量 
I sent a letter. （强调信） 
I wrote one word. （强调一个字） His bag is empty. 强调包是空的，而不是强调一个空包。  
7 I am only interested in doing nothing. That's ___c___ I'm interested in. a.only b.the one c.all d.the only 
(that's/the) only 一般加名词 
that+从句, 从句往往以特殊疑问词引导 that's why…；that's when… 
that's all 那就是一切 (That’s all said.) That's all(I heard). 
That's all I can remember. the one 指东西, 不指事情 
 
11 He always goes ___d_ with an empty bag. 
a.to home b.to house c.to the house d.home go home 习惯用法, 最佳答案 
go to the house 语法正确没有规则与语法相提并论时，语法为大；语法与习惯用法相提并论时，习惯用法为大。 
	Where are you going? 	(更习惯这么说) 
Where are you going to? 