
	Lesson 88 	Trapped in a mine 
】生词和短语（12） 
trap 	v. 陷入，使陷于困境 
surface 	n. 地面，表面 
explosive 	n. 炸药 
vibration 	n. 震动 
collapse 	v.  坍塌 
drill 	v.  钻孔 
capsule 	n. 容器 
layer 	n. 层 
beneath 	prep. 在 .. 之下 
lower 	v.  放下，降低 
progress 	v.  进展，进行 
smoothly 	adv. 顺利地 
 
	★ collapse 	v. 坍塌 
①	vi. 倒塌 
If explosives are used, vibrations will cause the roof of the mine to collapse. With no one to repair it, the old church collapsed long ago. 
②	vi.（因精疲力竭）倒下；（身体等）垮掉 
After many years’ hard work, my mother’s health collapsed. He had run more than forty miles. As soon as he was out of danger, he collapsed. 
 
【Text】 
Six men have been trapped in a mine for seventeen hours. If they are not brought to the surface soon they may lose their lives. However, rescue operations are proving difficult. If explosives are used, vibrations will cause the roof of the mine to collapse. Rescue workers are therefore drilling a hole on the north side of the mine. They intend to bring the men up in a special capsule. If there had not been a hard layer of rock beneath the soil, they would have completed the job in a few hours. As it is, they have been drilling for sixteen hours and they still have a long way to go. Meanwhile, a microphone, which was lowered into the mine two hours ago, has enabled the men to keep in touch with their closest relatives. Though they are running out of food and drink, the men are cheerful and confident that they will get out soon. They have been told that rescue operations are progressing smoothly. If they knew how difficult it was to drill through the hard rock, they would lose heart. 
 
参考译文 
6 个人被困在矿井里已有 17 个小时了。如果不把他们尽快救到地面上来，他们就有可能丧生。然而，事实证明营救工作非常困难。如果用炸药爆破，震动会引起矿顶塌落。因此，营救人员在矿井的北侧钻了  一个洞。他们准备用一种特制的容器把这 6 个人救上来。如果不是因为土壤下面有一层坚硬的岩石，他们的营救工作仅用几个小时就可以完成了。实际情况是，他们已连续钻了 16 个小时了，但离钻透还早着呢。与此同时，两个小时以前放下井去的一只麦克风使井下的人可以与其亲属保持联系。虽然他们的食物和饮  料都快消耗尽了，但这些人的心情很好，坚信他们很快就会出去。他们一直被告知营救工作进行得非常顺  利。
如果他们知道了钻透那坚硬的岩石有多么困难，他们会丧失信心的。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	However, rescue operations are proving difficult. 
rescue operations 营救工作 prove vt. 证明是，结果是 
What he had told us proved false.  
2、	Rescue workers are therefore drilling a hole on the north side of the mine. therefore 	adv. 因此，所以（可独立使用，也可位于动词前） 
The new flat is larger and therefore more expensive. 
His parents gave him some money, and he was therefore able to buy a car. so 	conj. 所以，因此（不能放在动词前） 
We arrived early, so we got good seats.  
3、	As it is, they have been drilling for sixteen hours and they still have a long way to go. 
	as it is =as it was 	事实上，实际上 
I thought they would help us. As it was, they just sat there and looked on. I promised to return books yesterday. As it is, I won’t be able to do so until next Monday. 
 
4、	Meanwhile, a microphone, which was lowered into the mine two hours ago, has enabled the men to keep in touch with their closest relatives. 
	enable 	vt. 使……能够 
The hubble telescope will enable us to have a better understanding of the distant stars and galaxies. 
前缀 en-加在名词或形容词前可以使这个词成为动词，如 endanger（危及，使遭受危险），enlarge（扩 
大，扩展，扩充），enslave（奴役，使成为奴隶），entrap（使……入陷阱/圈套，欺骗） keep in touch with 	与……保持联系（可以用 stay，get 等其他动词） 
George is in close touch with Ian. Can you get in touch with the company? 
 
5、	Though they are running out of food and drink, the men are cheerful and confident that they will get out soon. 
run out of 	用完，用尽  
6、	If they knew how difficult it was to drill through the hard rock, they would lose heart. lose heart 	失望，丧失信心/勇气，泄气，灰心 
Seeing that the enemy was much stronger than themselves, the soldiers lost heart at once. 
 
 
【Special  Difficulties】与 run 有关的短语 run out of 用完，耗尽 
They are running out of food and drink. 
He has run out of money. 
	run after 	追赶，追逐 
Seeing that his sister was annoyed, he ran after her to apologize. 
	run over 	在……驶过/辗过 
The car ran over a snake/his legs. 
	run in 	试车，试转（发动机等） 
John is running his new car in. 
Run in the engine before you start work. 
	run into 	偶然碰见 
I ran into Mary and Jane in the flower shop. 
He ran into Sterlings while travelling in Italy.  