
 
 
	Lesson 94 	Future champions 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（9） 
instruct 	v. 指导，传授 
Los Angeles 	洛杉矶 
reluctant 	adj. 勉强的，不愿意的 
weight 	n. 重物 
underwater 	adj. 水下的 
tricycle 	n. 三轮车 
compete 	v. 比赛，对抗 
yard 	n. 码 
gasp 	v. 喘气 
 
	★ instruct 	v. 指导，传授 
①	vt. 指导，教，传授 
Children can be instructed in swimming at a very early age. Dan instructs chemistry at a nearby college. 
②	vt. 批示，命令，吩咐 
The doctor instructed Jimmy to stay in bed for a week. 
I’ve been instructed to give you this parcel. 
 
	★ compete 	v. 比赛，对抗 
①	vi. 比赛，对抗（通常与 with 或 against 连用） 
The children compete against each other to reach the other end of the pool. During the singing contest, Mary competed with Helen for the first prize. 
②	vi. 匹敌，比得上，媲美（通常与 with 连用，多用于否定句） 
Hugh’s house can’t compete with yours. None of his later books can compete with his first one. 
 
【Text】 
Experiments have proved that children can be instructed in swimming at a very early age. At a special swimming pool in Los Angeles, children become expert at holding their breath under water even before they can walk. Babies of two months old do not appear to be reluctant to enter the water. It is not long before they are so accustomed to swimming that they can pick up weights from the floor of the pool. A game that is very popular with these young swimmers is the underwater tricycle race. Tricycles are lined up on the floor of the pool seven feet under water. The children compete against each other to reach the other end of the pool. Many pedal their tricycles, but most of them prefer to push or drag them. Some children can cover the whole length of the pool without coming up for breath even once. Whether they will ever become future Olympic champions, only time will tell. Meanwhile, they should encourage those among us who cannot swim five yards before they are gasping for air. 
 
参考译文 
实验证明，儿童在很小的时候就可以开始学习游泳。在洛杉矶的一个特设的游泳池里，孩子们甚至在  还没有学会走路时就已经能熟练地在水下屏住呼吸了。两个月的婴儿并未显得不愿意入水。他们很快便适  应了游泳，以致能捡起池底的物品。这些幼小的游泳运动员非常喜爱的一种游戏是水下三轮车比赛。三轮  车并排放在 7 英尺深的游泳池底上。孩子们比赛看谁先到达游泳池的另一端。很多孩子用脚蹬车，但多数孩子更愿意推或是拉着三轮车。有些孩子能够跑完游泳池的全长而不用露出水面换气。他们将来是否能成  为奥林匹克的冠军，这只能由时间来作出回答。与此同时，他们对我们中的那些游不了 5 码就已喘不过气来的人应该是种鼓舞。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	At a special swimming pool in Los Angeles, children become expert at holding their breath under water even before they can walk. 
expert at/in doing sth. ……方面的专家，熟练者 
Rex soon became an expert at opening the gate. 
	hold one’s breath 	屏住呼吸 
Last night, when I heard a strange noise coming from the bar, I held my breath and listened carefully. 
 
2、	It is not long before they are so accustomed to swimming that they can pick up weights from the floor of the pool. 
not long before 不久，很快 be accustomed to n./doing sth. 习惯的，适应了的 
He soon became accustomed to his new job. 
My mother is accustomed to getting up early. 
 
3、A game that is very popular with these young swimmers is the underwater tricycle race. be popular with… 深受……的欢迎，为……所喜爱 
Mary is popular with/among children. 
Swimming is popular with these girls. 
 
4、	Tricycles are lined up on the floor of the pool seven feet under water. line up 	（使）排成行/排队 
Why are people lining up over there? 
Line these chairs up, please. 
 
5、	The children compete against each other to reach the other end of the pool. compete against 	与……竞争，与……抗衡 
 
6、	Some children can cover the whole length of the pool without coming up for breath even once. come up for breath 升上水面换气 
 
7、	Whether they will ever become future Olympic champions, only time will tell. 
倒装句，宾语从句置于句首，通常，以疑问词引导的宾语从句会用于这种句型： 
 
What made him do it, no one knows. 
How they found out the truth, only George can tell.  