
 
	Lesson 96 	The dead return 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（3） 
festival 	n. 节日 
lantern 	n. 灯笼 
spectacle 	n. 景象，壮观，场面 
 
★ drift 
①	vi. 漂流，漂移 
Thousands of lanterns slowly drift out to sea. The boat drifted gently across the water. 
②	vi. 漂泊，游荡 
He has lost his job and just drifts in the city all day long. He drifted from France to Italy. 
 
★ guide 
①	vt. 给……领路 
The old man guided the explorers through the forest. 
These lanterns will guide the dead on their return journey to the other world. 
②	vt.  指导（……的行动）；影响（……的决策等） 
	We should be always guided by truth. 	我们应该永远受真理的指导。 
Don’t let your wife’s opinion guide your actions. 
 
【Text】 
A Festival for the Dead is held once a year in Japan. This festival is a cheerful occasion, for on this day, the dead are said to return to their homes and they are welcomed by the living. As they are expected to be hungry after their long journey, food is laid out for them. Specially-made lanterns are hung outside each house to help the dead to find their way. All night long, people dance and sing. In the early morning, the food that had been laid out for the dead is thrown into a river or into the sea as it is considered unlucky for anyone living to eat it. In towns that are near the sea, the tiny lanterns which had been hung in the streets the night before, are placed into the water when the festival is over. Thousands of lanterns slowly drift out to sea guiding the dead on their return journey to the other world. This is a moving spectacle, for crowds of people stand on the shore watching the lanterns drifting away until they can be seen no more. 
 
参考译文日本每年过一次“亡灵节”。这个节日是个欢乐的日子，因为在这一天，据说死去的人要回到他们的家   里来，活着的人则对他们表示欢迎。因为预料到他们在经过长途旅行之后会感到饥饿，所以为他们摆放好   了食品。特制的灯笼挂在各家的门外，为的是帮助亡灵看清道路。整个夜晚人们载歌载舞。一大早，人们   便把为死者摆放的食品扔进河中或海里，因为人们认为活着的人吃了这些东西是不吉利的。在靠海的城镇   中，头天夜里挂在大街小巷的小灯笼在节后就放在了水里。成千上万只灯笼慢慢漂向大海，指引着亡灵返   回另一个世界。这是一个感人的场面，人们成群地伫立在海岸上，注视着灯笼远去，直到再也看不见为止。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、A Festival for the Dead is held once a year in Japan. 
The dead 和 the living 均为“定冠词+形容词”结构，表示某类人。  
2、	As they are expected to be hungry after their long journey, food is laid out for them. lay out 	摆放，展示，摆设，摊开 
Don’t lay out your clothes on the bed. Put them away.  
3、	All night long, people dance and sing. 
	all night long 	整夜（long 为副词，表示“整个，在整段期间中”，常与 all 连用） 
It snowed all day long. She stayed with her grandfather all summer long.  
4、	Thousands of lanterns slowly drift out to sea guiding the dead on their return journey to the other world. the other world 另一个世界，即阴间 
She believes that she will meet her dead parents in the other world. the next world = the world to come 来世 
 
5 、 This is a moving spectacle, for crowds of people stand on the shore watching the lanterns drifting away until they can be seen no more. 
	moving 	adj. 动人的，感人的 
	a moving spectacle 	一个感人的场面 
