
 
	Lesson 21 	Mad or not? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（4） mad 	adj. 发疯 reason 	n. 原因 sum 	n. 量 
	determined 	adj. 坚定的，下决心的 
 
	★ mad 	adj. 发疯 
sb. is mad 
“为……而疯狂（着迷）”的表示方法： 
be mad about… 
I'm mad about English. 
be crazy about… 
	go insane 	（insane 	adj. 患精神病的，精神病患者的，极愚蠢的） 
I slowly go insane/go crazy/go mad/go bananas. 
go bananas （go+adj. 变得……) 
They are going bananas. =go crazy=go mad (变疯了) 
 
★	reason n. 原因 for this reason 由于这个理由、原因 
For this reason,I was late. 
as+句子 由 于 …… because+句子 由于…… 
 
★	sum n. 量 a sum of +不可数名词 一笔…… 
a large sum of 	大笔的…… (large 指数量的大) a large sum of money 	一大笔钱 
a great many + 可数名词复数 a great number of + 可数名词复数 plenty of… 	足够多的…… 
 
★ determined 	adj. 坚定的, 下决心的 be determined to do sth.  下定决心做某事 make up one's mind  下定决心 decide to do sth. 	决定做…… make a decision to do sth. 	决定做…… determine 	v.下定决心 
 
【Text】 
Aeroplanes are slowly driving me mad. I live near an airport and passing planes can be heard 
 
night and day. The airport was built years ago, but for some reason it could not be used then. Last year, however, it came into use. Over a hundred people must have been driven away from their homes by the noise. I am one of the few people left. Sometimes I think this house will be knocked down by a passing plane. I have been offered a large sum of money to go away, but I am determined to stay here. Everybody says I must be mad and they are probably right. 
 
参考译文 
飞机正在逐渐把我逼疯. 我住在一个机场附近, 过往飞机日夜不绝于耳. 机场是许多年前建的, 但由于某种原因当时未能启用. 然而去年机场开始使用了. 有 100 多人肯定是被噪音逼得已经弃家远去, 我是少数留下来的人中的一个. 有时我觉得这房子就要被一架飞过的飞机撞倒. 他们曾向我提供一大笔钱让我搬走, 但我决定留在这儿. 大家都说我肯定是疯了, 也许他们说的是对的. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	Mad or not? = mad or not mad? 
or not  在疑问词的后面，表示“是还不是”，选择概念  
2、	Aeroplanes are slowly driving me mad. 
	drive sb. mad 	逼某人发疯 
You are driving me mad. The teacher is slowly driving me mad. 
 
3、I live near an airport and passing planes can be heard night and day. 
	night and day 	日日夜夜，夜以继日 (注意连读) 
	passing planes 	过往飞机 （passing 是现在分词，作定语，起形容词作用，修饰 planes，“经过的(路 
过)，过往的”） 
	He forgot the man with passing time. 	随着时间的消逝，他忘掉了那个人。 
sleeping baby 正在睡觉的小孩 waiting car 正在等待的车 
 
4、The airport was built years ago, but for some reason it could not be used then. 
years 前面不加确定的数词时，一般表示“许多年”years ago = many years ago，weeks 等的用法与它相 
似 
I have not seen him for weeks. 
some+不可数名词/可数名词复数 	一些…… some+可数名词单数 某一…… for some reason   由于某个理由I’ll tell you someday. 
We’ll talk about it some other time. 我们改日再谈这件事。 
 
5、Last year, however, it came into use. 
however 然而（用于句首, 句中, 用逗号隔开） use 
①	n. 使用  
 
	come into use 	启用，开始被使用（主动概念，没有被动式） 
When did the train come into use? 
The road came into use last month. 
②	vt. 使用 be used 被使用（被动）  
6、Over a hundred people must have been driven away from their homes by the noise. 
over a hundred… 一百多…… must have been done 过去发生, 表示推测，被动 away from 从某地离开（away 离开某地） out of somewhere 从某地出来 
 
7、I am one of the few people left. 
one of… ……之一(表示特指的一群人/一些东西中的一个，后面的名词用复数) 
One of the girls standing over there is Tim’s sister. 
You can take one of these bags. 
left 表示被留下来的，leave 过去分词, left 作定语放在被修饰词的后面 left 	剩下的……东西，相当于“Who are left (by the others) 其他人走了留下他们” 
I have a bag left. 
	There is ten cents left in my pocket. （cent 	n.(货币单位)分, 分币） 
 
8、Sometimes I think this house will be knocked down by a passing plane. I have been offered a large sum of money to go away, but I am determined to stay here. knock down 	撞倒 offer 	v. 提供（相当于 given） 
双宾语的被动语态中，主语有两种可能; 以 sb.做主语或以 sth.做主语 give sb. sth.——>被动 sb. be given sth. give sth. to sb.——>被动 sth. be given to sb. 
双宾语在变被动时用离动词最近的宾语做主语原文句型结构 sb. be offered sth. 
 
【Key structures】 	 
被动语态 
被动语态可以和大部分情态动词连用（包括具有情态功能的 will 和 would）。 
He may have been told the news. 
The shops must have been closed now. 
动词+宾语+不定式结构中既可以动词用被动语态，也可以在不定式中用被动语态： 
Mary was told to meet us. = They told Mary meet us. 
在句型“动词+间接宾语+直接宾语”中，这两个宾语都可以成为被动句的主语。但由于间接宾语通常  
是人，所以间接宾语成为被动句主语的时候要多些： 
Sam was given a gold watch. = A gold watch was given to Sam. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 
 
Drive 的用法 
① v. 开车, 驾驶 (drove, driven, driving) drive to… 	开车去往某地 
I drove to Tianjing yesterday 
②	vt. 赶，驱赶，围赶（猎物、敌人等） 
drive sb. away from 	 	把某人赶走 drive sb. out of 	把某人赶出去 
During the war, many people were driven out of their homes. 
	drive sb. back 	撵回去 
Our army drove the enemy back. 
③	vt. 逼迫，迫使 drive sb. mad 逼疯 The death of all her children has driven her mad. 
 
Home and House 
	home 	n. &adv. 家，家庭，家园（着重指所居住的人，常有爱、温暖、舒适、安全等隐含意义， 
带有感情色彩） 
I have a sweet home. 
	house 	n. 房子，房屋，住宅（指建筑物） 
	Tom must be somewhere in the house. 	汤姆肯定在这屋子里的某个地方。 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4 It couldn't be used then. It wasn't ___d___ to use it. 
a. able b. allowed c. impossible d. possible it+be 动词+形容词+to do（翻译时先译 “to” 后面的句子） ……是……的 be able to 强调主语能够做某事, 主语必须是人 it+be 动词+表语, be allowed 不能充当表语. 如将 “it” 改为 “people(人)” 就 A,B 都正确  
5 Over a hundred people must have been driven away. _ a_ they were. 
a. I think 	b. I'm sure 	c. Certain 	d. Of course must have been done：对过去的一种被动语态的推测 must have done : 对过去的一种推测 I'm sure 	我肯定 
I’m sure she is teacher. 
I think 	我认为 of course 当然 ； certain 	adj. 当然（词性不对, 句子前不应放形容词）  
9 I have been offered a large _ a_ of money. 
a. amount b. number c. some d. piece a large number of +可数名词（不能加不可数名词） an amount of+不可数 一大笔…… 
	some of/plenty of 	前面是不加 “a/an” 
 
10 I am determined to stay here. I _d___ stay here. 
a. am will to  b. want to c. may d. am going to be going to 打算、计划 want to 来自心里的一种想, 喜好，喜欢……  