
 
	Lesson 43 	Over the South Pole 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（13） 
pole 	n.（地球的）极 
flight 	n. 飞行 
explorer 	n. 探险家 
lie 	v. 处于 
serious 	adj. 严重的 
point 	n. 地点 
seem 	v.  似乎 
crash 	v.  坠毁 
sack 	n. 袋子 
clear 	v.  越过 
aircraft 	n. 飞机 
endless 	adj. 无尽的 
plain 	n. 平原 
 
★	pole 	n.（地球的）极 
the South Pole 南极；the North Pole 北极 
Pole Star 北极星 
 
★	flight 	n. 飞行 fly 	v. 飞  
★	explorer 	n. 探险家, 探测者, 探测器 [计]Windows 资源管理器 explore 	v.探险,  探测,  探究 exploration  n.(科研相关)探险,探求,开发 adventure 	 n.冒险(追求刺激) 
	venture] 	n. 冒险(为了财富,没有生命保障) 
 
★	lie 	v. 处于 
①	vi. (lay[lei]，lain[lein]) 处于,位于(+地点) The mountains lie below us now. 
The town lies to the east of London. 
②	vi. (lay[lei]，lain[lein])    躺，（平）卧 lie 现在分词--> lying stay in bed = lie in bed 躺在床上 
While I sat by the fire, my dog lay beside me. 
③	vt.（lied，lied） 撒谎 
tell a lie 撒谎 
You lied. = You lied to me.你骗人! 你撒谎! You,liar! 你, 骗子! (liar n.(惯于)说谎者) ④ n.谎言 
 
lay （laid,laid） 
①	vt. 放,放置 lay sth. 
②	vt. 下蛋, 产卵 lay an egg 下一个蛋hang
	（hung，hung） 	挂,悬挂
hang（hanged，hanged） 绞刑  
★	point n. 地点 point 点，一般指从飞机上向下看的点 
地点 place，spot sina.com 中的 “.” 读为 dot（点） @读为 at 
 
★	seem v. 似乎，看起来 seem + as if 看起来似乎…… 
He seems as if he had never lived in England before. seem + adj. 
He seems rich. 
seem to be 
He seems to be rich. 
	seem that… 	看起来似乎…… 
It seems that he is rich. 
 
★	crash 	v.  坠毁（从上向下掉）；n.  冲突,  撞击声,  抵触 aircrash 空难 ， carcrash 车祸 strike 	v. 撞击 
	collide 	vi.碰撞, 抵触(两个都运动的东西相撞) 
 
★	clear v. 越过 clear v. (凌空、不接触地)越过, 跳过，没有接触面的飞跃 clear the mountain 飞跃ft峰 
The horse cleared the fense. （fense n.篱笆,栅栏,墙 v.围住,防护） over 	adv. 越过(距离) go over 飞跃 
 
★	plain 	n. 平原 plain girl 	平凡的女孩 
I'm a plain girl. 
	mountains 	n. 高ft 
 
【Text】 
In 1929, three years after his flight over the North Pole, the American explorer, R.E. Byrd, successfully flew over the South Pole for the first time. Though, at first, Byrd and his men were able to take a great many photographs of the mountains that lay below, they soon ran into serious trouble. At one point, it seemed certain that their plane would crash. It could only get over the mountains if it rose to 10,000 feet. Byrd at once ordered his men to throw out two heavy food sacks. The plane was then able to rise and it cleared the mountains by 400 feet. Byrd now knew that he would be able to reach the South Pole which was 300 miles away, for there were no more mountains in sight. The aircraft was able to fly over the endless white plains without difficulty. 
 
参考译文 
美国探险家 R.E. 伯德在飞越北极 3 年之后, 于 1929 年第一次飞越了南极. 虽然开始时伯德和他的助手们拍下了飞机下面连绵群ft的大量照片, 但他们很快就陷入了困境. 在有个地方, 飞机似乎肯定要坠毁了. 只有在飞至 10,000 英尺的高度时, 它才能飞过这些ft头. 伯德马上命令他的助手们把两个沉重的食物袋扔掉, 于是飞机可以上升了, 它在离ft头 400 英尺的高度飞越了过去. 伯德这时知道他能够顺利飞抵 300 英里以外的南极了, 因为前面再没有ft了. 飞机可以毫无困难地飞过这片茫茫无际的白色原野! 
 
【课文讲解】 
1 、 In 1929, three years after his flight over the North Pole, the American explorer, R.E. Byrd, successfully flew over the South Pole for the first time. 
	for the first time 	第一次（time 表示“次，回”，还可以说 this time，last time，next time，another time， 
each time，for the last time 等） 
I remind you for the last time that if you don’t hurry, you’ll miss the train. Give him these photos next time you see him. 
 
2、	Though, at first, Byrd and his men were able to take a great many photographs of the mountains that lay below, they soon ran into serious trouble. 
连词 though 引导让步状语从句，其含义是“虽然……，尽管……” 
Although/Though/Even though I felt sorry for him ,I was secretly pleased that he was having difficulties. 虽然我为他感到惋惜，但对他的困难我却暗自高兴。 
	take a photograph of… 	拍……的照片 
He took a photograph of his house before he left home. 
	run into trouble = get into trouble 	遇到麻烦，陷入困境 
Each time he ran into trouble, he asked his parents for help.  
3、	At one point, it seemed certain that their plane would crash. 
	at one point 	在某一地方，在某一时刻（point 也指时间上的某一点） 
At one point, he made up his mind to become a painter.他曾一度下决心要当个画家。 
it 为先行主语，真正的主语为 that 引导的从句。it 作先行主语时经常与 seem，appear，look 等连用： 
It now looks certain that the meeting is going to be put off. 现在似乎可以肯定会议将被推迟。 
 
4、	It could only get over the mountains if it rose to 10,000 feet. rise to … 上升至…… 
 
5、	The plane was then able to rise and it cleared the mountains by 400 feet. 
by 表示“相差，以……之差”的意思 
I missed the train by ten minutes. 我晚了 10 分钟，没赶上火车。 He is younger than me by two years.  他比我小两岁。 
 
【Key structures】 
Can and Be able to 
情态助动词 can/could 用于表示请求别人允许或答复时的情况: 
Can/Could I borrow you pen? can 有时可以表示可能性： 
I can have lunch with your tomorrow if you like. 
在表示天生的或学到的能力时，can/could 可用于现在时和过去时，can/could 与 be able to 通常可以互换， 
表示将来的“能力”时，则用 will be able to： 
I could drive a car by the time I was sixteen. 
I tried again and found I could/was able to swim. Can Jane swim yet? 
No, but she’ll be able to swim in a few months’ time. 
在谈到说话时正在发生的事时，一般不用 be able to： 
Look! I can stand on my head. 
在表示成功地完成某一具体动作时，通常不用 could，而用 be able to；如果表示某一动作没有取得成功，则可用 couldn’t： 
It’s pity he couldn’t visit Mary. 
Oh, didn’t you know? He was able to visit her after all. 
	He was able to leave Europe before the war began. 	他在战争开始之前得以离开欧洲。 
He was able to go to London yesterday and he enjoyed himself very much. 
在问及过去某一具体活动时可用 could，但回答是肯定的时候则不能： 
Could he borrow a car? Yes, he was able to borrow a car after all./No, he couldn’t. 
 
【Special  Difficulties】含有介词 at 的词组 
at 与许多词可以构成固定词组，其中表示时间的有：at first（开始时，最初），at once（马上，立刻）， at present（目前，现在），at last（最后，终于），at times（有时），at the moment（现在）；表示地点的有： at home（在家），at school（在学校）；表示程度的有：at least（至少），at any rate（不管怎样）；其它词组有 at heart（内心里，实际上），at a loss（困惑不解，不知怎么办）等。 
At any rate, I’m determined to stay here at present. 
At least, I’m not mad yet. 
People have more money now, yet the temptationto to steal is greater than ever before. Why? I’m at a loss. Though he tried to made conversation with the lady, he wasn’t interested in her at heart. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4	It could only get over the mountains if it rose to 10,000 feet. This means it___a___ over the mountains. a. would succeed in getting 	b. got 	c. was able to get 	d. had got 
could 与过去时态有关,强调可能性 be able to 强调成功地做 
got 用过去式表达,表示在过去发生；had got 过去完成时,强调在过去的过去  
5	The plane was then able to rise. This means it _ d___. 
	a. could rise  	b. might rise 	c. might succeed in rising 	d.rose 
could rise 有可能,不知道结果 might rise 可能 
might succeed in rising 可能成功地做 
rose 没有情态单词,表示已经成为事实 
 
6 Byrd knew that he would be able to reach the South Pole. It would be _ d___. 
a. impossible 	 b.necessary 	c. able 	d. possible was/were able to 表示这个动作在过去成功地做 
will be able to =can 将来可能会成  