
 
	Lesson 37 	The Olympic Games 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（9） 
Olympic 	adj. 奥林匹克的 
hold 	v.  召开 
government 	n. 政府 
immense 	adj. 巨大的 
stadium 	n. 露天体育场 
standard 	n. 标准 
capital 	n. 首都 
fantastic 	adj. 巨大的 
design 	v. 设计 
 
★	Olympic adj. 奥林匹克的 
	the Olympic games 	奥林匹克运动会（简称 the Games，一般大型运动会用 games) 
 
★	hold (held，held) 	v. 召开 
①	vt. 拿着，抓住，抱住 
Please hold the bady while I take off my coat. Why are you holding my bag? 
②	容纳，装得下，包含 
This cup can’t hold much water. 这杯子装不了多少水。 
The stadium can hold 20,000 people. 
③	举行，进行（会议、会谈等）；庆祝（节日）；纪念 have a meeting = hold a meeting 召开会议 
hold 习惯用被动： 
The Olympic games will be held in China in 2008. (two thousand eight) 
	A festival is held at Edinburgh every year. 	节日庆典每年在爱丁堡举行一次. 
We are going to hold a meeting tomorrow to discuss the subject. 明天我们准备开一次会来讨论这个议题. 
The next conference will be held in Geneva. 下次会议将在日内瓦举行. 
 
★	immense 	adj. 巨大的 
 
★	fantastic 	adj. 巨大的 
	immense 	adj. 极大的, 无边的, 一望无际的 
The universe is immense. immense ocean 
	big 	adj.（一般的）大的
	big man 	大人物 
	large 	adj. 数量的大, 尺寸的大 
	large man 	大块头 
 great 	adj. 伟大的, 重要的 
	great man 	伟人 
huge 	adj.(体积的)巨大的, 庞大，极大的, 无限的 fantastic 	adj. 巨大的(建筑等，表惊叹)，好极的, 宏伟的 
 
★ stadium 	n. 露天体育场 
playground 	n. 操场 
sports field 	运动场, 体育场（sports 各种各样的运动） 
gymnasium 	n. 健身房，体育馆；体育 
篮球场 gym ；足球场 stadium 
 
★	standard 	n. 标准 high standard 	高标准 
Olympic-standard 奥林匹克标准(运动会中的最高标准)（复合形容词：形容词+名词）  
★	capital n. 首都 capital adj. 大写的, 重要的 capital punishment 极刑 (punishment n.惩罚, 处罚, 惩处) hot seat 电椅（国外的极刑） 
 
★	design 	v. 设计 
①	vt. &vi. 设计图样 
George has designed a new bridge. 
②	vt. &vi.  打算（做……），计划 
He designed to enter for the competition. 
This book is designed for foreign tourist. 
③	n. 图样，图纸；设计 
Susan has just drawn a design for a new dress. Here is the design of the new house. 
 
	designer 	n. 设计师 
well－designed 设计不错的（复合形容词：副词+过去分词） 
 
【Text】 
The Olympic Games will be held in our country in four years' time. As a great many people will be visiting the country, the government will be building new hotels, an immense stadium, and a new Olympic-standard swimming pool. They will also be building new roads and a special railway line. The Games will be held just outside the capital and the whole area will be called 'Olympic City'. Workers will have completed the new roads by the end of this year. By the end of next year, they will have finished work on the new stadium. The fantastic modern buildings have been designed by Kurt Gunter. Everybody will be watching anxiously as the new buildings go up. We are all very excited and are looking forward to the Olympic Games because they have never been held before in this country. 
 
参考译文 
4 年以后, 奥林匹克运动会将在我们国家举行. 由于将有大批的人到我们国家来, 所以政府准备建造一些新的饭店、一个大型体育场和一个新的奥运会标准游泳池.   他们还将修筑一些新的道路和一条铁路专线. 奥运会就在首都市郊举办, 整个地区将被称作 “奥林匹克城” . 工人们将在今年年底前把新路铺好; 到明年年底, 他们将把新体育场建成. 这些巨大的现代化建筑是由库尔特·冈特设计的. 大家都将急切地注视着新建筑的建成. 我们都非常激动, 盼望着奥运会的到来, 因为在这个国家里还从未举办过奥运会. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、The Olympic Games will be held in our country in four years' time. 
	in four years’ time 	四年之后（in 常与将来时连用表示“……时间之后”） 
He will be back in ten minutes or half an hour. 
four years later 	四年后 four years ago 	四年前  
2 、 As a great many people will be visiting the country, the government will be building new hotels, an immense stadium, and a new Olympic-standard swimming pool. 
as/because 原因，as 是连词，引出原因状语从句，as 用于表示原因时通常位于句首，它所表明的原因对于讲话对象可能是已知的，因此没必要再予以强调。because     任何时候都可代替  as，来说明一种或几种 
原因，但 as 则不一定总能代替 because。because 一般跟在主句后面，强调讲话的对象可能不知道的原因。
As you can’t type the letter yourself, you’ll have to ask Susan to do it for you. Jim’s trying to save more money because he wants to buy a car. a large number of people = a great many people 大批的人 
	an immense stadium 	一个大型体育场 
a new Olympic-standard swimming pool 	一个新的奥运会标准的游泳池  
3、They will also be building new roads and a special railway line. 
	be building 	修建 
a special railway-line 专线铁路 
 
4、Workers will have completed the new roads by the end of this year. 
by the end of this year 	到今年年底前 by the end of next year 	到明年年底前 
by 是完成时的标志,  表示“到……为止，在……之前，并不晚于某时的任何时间”，不能与表示一段时
间的名词名词连用，只能与表示时间点的名词或词组连用，用于肯定句与用于否定句有一定区别。 
	I’ll have left by Monday. 	到星期一我将已离开。（星期一之前的任何时间） 
I won’t have left by Monday. 我星期一之前不会离开。 （星期一还在）  
5、	Everybody will be watching anxiously as the new buildings go up. 
as 是连词，相当于 while，当“当，正值”讲，引出时间状语从句，它引导的从句虽然表示将来的动作但要用一般现在时，不能用 “…will go up” be built 强调建造；go up （建筑物）被兴建起来，拔地而起 
Many new houses are going up in this district. 
 
6、	We are all very excited and are looking forward to the Olympic Games because they have never been held before in this country. 
look forward to+n./pron./doing sth. 	(很高兴的)盼望，期待 look forward to…与 expect(期待)的区别是 expect 没有高不高兴的成分
Look forward to your letter. 
 
【Letter Writing】 
在信的地址下面必须写上完整的日期。日期有两种写法，如：17th April, 19-；April 17th 19-，数字写法 
如下：1st（1 日）；2nd（2 日）；3rd（3 日）；4th（4 日）等。 
 
【Key structures】 	 一般将来完成时 
一般将来时除了可以用来预言将来发生的事以外，还可以表示“意愿”，如允诺、建议、请求、提议等。 
The radio hasn’t been mended yet.   Never mind! I’ll mend it for you. （允诺） 
Will you open the door for me please! （请求） 
Shall we go for a swim tomorrow? （建议） 
将来进行时除了表示最近或不久的将来正在进行的动作外，还可以表示计划或安排好的事： 
A great many people will be visiting the country. 
将来完成时用于表示到将来某一时刻已经完成的动作。将来完成时由 will have+过去分词构成。它常与by 和 not…till/until+表示时间的名词连用。 
I hope they’ll have finished it in time for the journey. 
I expect you will have changed your mind by tomorrow. I will have finished it until/till tomorrow. 
 
现在完成式 : 到现在某一点时间为止过去完成式 : 到过去某一点时间为止将来完成式 : 到将来某一点时间为止, 某个动作已经发生 
 
【Special Difficulties】
Look 的短语 
Look forward to (expect with pleasure) 	(高兴地)盼望，期待着（to 为介词后面只能跟名词、代词和动名词，不能接动词原形） 
	I am looking forward to the summer holidays. 	我正盼望暑假的到来. 
I look forward to seeing to you during the weekend. 
Look out (be careful) 当心 (注意)，留神 Look out! A bus is coming. 当心点, 公共汽车来了. 
You should always look out when you walk across a road. 
	Look out of 	朝外看 
Don’t look out of the window. 
Look up 
	① (get information from a reference book) 	查阅 (从参考书中获取资料) 
I don't understand this word. I shall look it up in a dictionary. 我不懂这个词的词义, 我要查一下字典. 
 
	② (visit) 	拜访，看望 
	Don't forget to look me up when you return. 	回来时别忘了来看我. 
I’m going to look up Mary this afternoon.  
Exercise 练习 用 hold 或 look 的正确形式填空 : 
4	The students' union ______ an interesting debate on capital punishment yesterday. 
5	My friend Ingrid lives in Stockholm. Why don't you ______ her ______ when you're there? 
6	Examinations will be ______ next week. I'm not ____  them. 
4.	held 
debate on … 	辩论…… （debate 	v. 争论, 辩论；n. 争论, 辩论） union 	n. 联合，合并，结合，联盟，协会 
口语过程三步：dialogue(对话)；discussion(讨论)；debate(争论) capital 	n. 首都；大写 
5.	look (her) up 
look (sb.) up : 拜访, 看看, 在英文中并不一定是很正式的, 只是去看看的意思 
6.	held；looking forward to 
hold an exam 	 举行考试 take the exam 	接受考试 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4   By the end of next  year they will have  finished the new stadium. This means they will  finish it ___ b_   the end of next year. 
a. at 	b. before 	c. after 	d. long before by=before 	 到……为止, 在……之前, 不迟于 long before 	在之前很久  
7 We are looking forward to the Olympic Games, _ a_ they have never been held before in this country. 
a. for 	b. why 	c. because of 	d. due to because 强调后面的是原因，后跟句子 because of 	因为……（介词短语，不会加句子） why 不能直接做连词 
	due to + 名词 	由于……（介词短语，不会加句子） 
His success is due to his hard work.  
12  We are looking forward to the Games. So we will be ___a ___ when they begin. 
a. pleased  b. unhappy c. sorry d. impatient be pleased 感到高兴地, 令人满意地 be pleased to do sth. 乐于做某事 impatient adj. 不耐烦的, 急躁的, 不耐心的 