
 
	Lesson 32 	Shopping made easy 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（6） 
once 	adv. 曾经，以前 
temptation 	n. 诱惑 
article 	n. 物品，东西 
wrap 	v. 包裹 
simply 	adv. 仅仅 
arrest 	v. 逮捕 
 
	★ once 	adj. 曾经, 以前 
①	once = long long ago 	很久以前 
②	once 	一次 
I visited my mother once a month. (一次) 
③ once 连接从句，表示“一旦” 
Once you leave my company, you must return the house. 
 
★ temptation n 诱惑 temptation to do sth. ……的诱惑 
	temptation to steal 	偷窃的诱惑 
	resist the temptation to do sth. 	抵抗不了……的诱惑 
	(resist 	vt. 抵抗, 反抗, 抗, 忍得住) 
I can't resist the temptation to laugh. 
 
	★ article 	n. 物品, 东西 
①	n. 文章 
This is a good article. 
②	n.  物品, 东西（强调的是商店里的一个一个的东西, 是可数名词, 单独的东西, 独立的个体） thing n. 指任何的东西（和 article 不可相互取代） cargo  n. 船货, (车、船、飞机等运输的)货物 goods   n. 货物, 商店里的货物的总称 
 
★ wrap v. 包裹 wrap sth. up 把……打包 
Please wrap them (up) for me. 请替我把他们包好 pack v. 打包（指为了携带, 运输的方便而打包） 
I will take/get/have it. Please wrap them for me. / Please pack them for me. 
 
★	simply adv. 仅仅 simply = only = just 
 
★	arrest v.  逮捕 
 
①	vt. 逮捕，扣留 
When she was arrested, she refused to say anything. The criminal was arrested. 
	（criminal 	n. 罪犯, 犯罪者；adj. 犯罪的, 犯法的, 罪恶的） 
②	n. 逮捕，扣留 
sb. be under arrest 某人被逮捕 
Tony is under arrest now. 
	control/under control 	控制/被控制 
③	vt. 吸引（注意等） 
	arrest one's attention 	吸引某人的注意 
	The beauty of the woods arrested the tourists. 	树林的美丽景色吸引了游客。 
	He was arrested by her words. 	她的话吸引了他。 
 
【Text】 
People are not so honest as they once were. The temptation to steal is greater than ever before--especially in large shops. A detective recently watched a well-dressed woman who always went into a large store on Monday mornings. One Monday, there were fewer people in the shop than usual when the woman came in, so it was easier for the detective to watch her. The woman first bought a few small articles. After a little time, she chose one of the most expensive dresses in the shop and handed it to an assistant who wrapped it up for her as quickly as possible. Then the woman simply took the parcel and walked out of the shop without paying. When she was arrested, the detective found out that the shop assistant was her daughter. The girl 'gave' her mother a free dress once a week ! 
 
参考译文人们不再像以前那样诚实了. 偷窃的诱惑力比以往任何时候都更强烈——特别是在大的商店里. 一名侦探最近注意上了一位穿着讲究的妇女, 她总是在星期一上午进入一家大商场. 有一个星期一, 当这位妇女走进这家商场时, 里面的人比往常少, 因此, 侦探比较容易监视她. 这位妇女先是买了几样小商品. 过了一会几, 她又选了商场里最昂贵的一件衣服, 把它递给了售货员. 那售货员以最快的速度为她包好了衣服. 然后, 那妇女拿过包就走出了商场, 根本没有付钱. 她被逮捕后, 侦探发现原来那售货员是她的女儿. 那姑娘每星期 “送” 她母亲一件免费的衣服! 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	shopping made easy 
made 为过去分词, 有 “被” 的意思（标题不用句子, 所以标题省略 be） make 	v. 制造；使……怎么样 make the room clean 
make shopping easy =Shopping be made easy.(句子)  
2、	People are not so honest as they once were. 
	as…as… 	和……一样（as+ adj./adv. +as +比较对象） 
This case is as light as that one. 
	It is as heavy as that one. 	这个东西和那个东西一样重 
 
as…as…的否定形式是 not so…as…/not as…as… It is not as heavy as that one. 这个东西不如那个东西重 
I am taller than you/you are not as tall as I. 
less +原级 +than＝not as…as…=not so…as… 不如……那样……（比较状语从句） 
I am not so lucky as those fisherman. 
once 表示“以前，曾经”时只能与动词的过去式连用： 
He once worked at a large company.  
3、The temptation to steal is greater than ever before--especially in large shops. 
	the temptation to steal 	偷窃的诱惑力 
The temptation to smoke is strong for him. （to smoke 为不定式）要表现现在与过去的比较, 有两种方式 : 
① they are 与 they were 或 it is /it was 等在用不同时态比 they are 与 they were 在用不同时态比 
You are more beautiful than you were. 你比过去漂亮多了 You look better than you were. (省略句 : You look better.) Is this your car? It was my car.  以前是我的车子。 
	You were worse. 	（表示 You are better.你过去更差劲, 表示现在比以前更好了） 
	I think 	我想…… 
	I thought 	我原以为…… 
② 用短语than ever before 
People are not so honest as before. = People are not so honest as they once were. 
 
4 、 A detective recently watched a well-dressed woman who always went into a large store on Monday mornings. 
watch v. 观察, 监视; 当心(口语中) watch the enemy 
watch sth. 当心 
	Watch your head! 	(威胁) 
“well+动词的过去分词”组成复合形容词，做定语 well-designed 	设计得不错 well-educated 	有教养的 
 
5、One Monday, there were fewer people in the shop than usual when the woman came in, so it was easier for the detective to watch her. 
as usual 象平常 ；than usual 比平常 so it was easier for the detective to watch her. (句中用“easier”有潜在的比较含义，it 是形式主语，for sb. 中的sb.是逻辑主语 
	It be 动词+形容词+for sb. to do sth. 	对某人来说做什么事…… 
The teacher bought a lot of dresses to make her more beautiful. 
(更漂亮, 不用 “more” 时会让人产生误会，用 more 是表示对别人的尊重) 
	out of politeness 	出于礼貌 (politeness 	n. 有礼, 优雅) 
 
6 、 After a little time, she chose one of the most expensive dresses in the shop and handed it to an assistant who wrapped it up for her as quickly as possible. after a little time 	过了一会儿 
	hand…to… 	递给(比较有权威的人) 
handed it to an assistant (前一个以 “o” 结尾, 后一个以 “元音” 开头的, 读时需再在它们之间加一 
个[ ]音, 又如：my heart go on.) pass sth. to sb. 	一个一个的传递(更常用) hand in 上交 wrap sth. up for sb. 	为某人打包…… as … as possible 	尽可能…… 
I have sent you as many books as possible. 
He went home as soon as possible. 
 
7、When she was arrested, the detective found out that the shop assistant was her daughter. 
find out 	发现……（后跟的宾语一般是抽象的） find out the truth 发现真相 
	find sth. 	找到……(sth. 是看得见, 模得着的, 具体的) 
I find the pen. (pen 是具体的) 
 
8、The girl 'gave' her mother a free dress once a week ! 
	free 	adj. 免费的 
Children under five years old travel free. 	5 岁以下儿童免费旅行。 fee 	adj. 交费 
	fee parking 	收费的停车场 
“once a +表示时间的名词”可以表示频率： 
He comes to the office once a day. 
 
【Key structures】 	 比较状语从句 
比较状语从句含有或暗含有“与……相比”的意思。除了 than…或  more…than…这种结构外，它还包
括 as+形容词/副词+as…，not so/as…as…，less…than…等结构。当句子里两个动词相同、时态也一样时，则第二个动词可以省略，比较从句就成了含蓄的从句。如果对比的东西很明显，那么为了避免重复，从句  中有些成分、甚至整个从句都省略，因此这类句子往往不完整。 
People aren’t so kind as they used to be. 
No, they’re becoming less kind. 是的，他们变得不那么友善了。 
He is as quick in answering as his sister (is). 
He answers as quickly as his sister (does). He is not so/as quick as his sister. 
 
little 和 few 的用法 
little 和 a little 与不可数名词一起使用。little 表示否定，有“几乎一点儿也没有”的含义，在口语中常 
用 not much；a little 表示肯定，具有 some 的含义。 
He has (very) little hope of winning this race. 
 
=He hasn’t much hope of winning this race. Have we got any bread? 
Yes, there’s a little/some in the fridge. 
few 和 a few 与复数可数名词连用。few 表示否定，与 little 相似，在口语中多用 not many；a few 表示
肯定，有 some 的含义。 
They had few guests last weekend. 
They didn’t have many guests last weekend. little 的比较级为 less，few 的比较级为 fewer。 
During the holiday, there is less noise in the building. There are fewer travelers than there usually are. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 A and One 
不定冠词 a 通常用于表示不确定的人或事物以及第一次提到的人或事物，a 强调的是后面的名词； one 
强调的是 “一个” 的意思： 
It was one apple I ate, not two. 
There is a book and a pen on the desk. 
不表示强调时，a 和 one 有时可以互换： 
She will come home in a/one week’s time. 
叙述故事时常将 one+表示时间的名词用于句首，而不用 a： 
One Monday, he went to the office as usual. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4 There were fewer people in the shop than usual. There were ___b___. a. as many as usual 	b. not as many as usual 
	c. as few as usual 	d. more than usual 
 
7 It was one of the most expensive dresses ___a___ the shop. 
a. in b. of c. from d. to most expensive 最高级 
①	+地点 用in 
②	+范围表示所有的人或(书)当中, 用 of 
③	I have ever seen/done/heard. (定语从句)  我所看过的, 做过的, 听过的  
8 A detective recently watched a well-dressed woman. He ___d___ her. 
a. looked 	b. looked for 	c. looked after 	d. looked at watch = look at 
 
9 The woman first bought a few small articles. She bought some small _ a_ . 
	a. things 	b. pieces 	c. bits 	d. parts 
 
10 The assistant wrapped it. She ___d___ it. 
	a. papered 	b. turned 	c. enveloped 	d. made a parcel of 
 
made a parcel of 	制作一个包裹  
12 The dress was free. It ___c___. 
	a. was priceless  	b. was worthless 	c. cost nothing 	d. was grateful 
priceless 	adj.无价的, 极贵重的 worthless 	adj. 不值钱的（Something cost money.） free 	adj. 免费的 （I pay nothing.） grateful  	adj.感激的, 感谢的  