
 
	Lesson 60 	The future 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（6） 
future 	n. 未来，前途 
fair 	n. 集市 
fortune-teller 	n. 算命人 
crystal 	n. 水晶 
relation 	n. 亲属 
impatiently 	adv. 不耐烦地 
 
	★ relation 	n. 亲属 
① n. （事物间的）关系，关联（不可数） 
I know little about the relation of/between time and space. 
Is there any relation between the hot snake and the forest fire? 
②	n. （国家、人民等之间的）关系，往来（可数） 
Friendly relations have been developed between the two cities. They have broken relations with that firm. 
③	n. 亲戚，亲属（可数） 
A near relation of yours is coming to see you. 
 
【Text】 
At a village fair, I decided to visit a fortune-teller called Madam Bellinsky. I went into her tent and she told me to sit down. After I had given her some money, she looked into a crystal ball and said: 'A relation of yours is coming to see you. She will be arriving this evening and intends to stay for a few days. The moment you leave this tent, you will get a big surprise. A woman you know well will rush towards you. She will speak to you and then she will lead you away from this place. That is all.' 
As soon as I went outside, I forgot all about Madam Bellinsky because my wife hurried towards me. 'Where have you been hiding?' she asked impatiently. 'Your sister will be here in less than an hour and we must be at the station to meet her. We are late already.' As she walked away, I followed her out of the fair. 
 
参考译文 
在一个乡村集市上，我决定去拜访一位称作别林斯夫人的算命人。我走进她的帐篷，她叫我坐下。我给了
她一些钱后，她便查看着一个水晶球说道：“您的一个亲戚就要来看您了。她将于今天傍晚到达，并准备住上几天。您一走出这个帐篷，就会大吃一惊。一位您很熟悉的女人将向您冲来。她会对您说点什么，  然后带您离开这个地方。就是这些。” 
我一走出帐篷，就把别林斯基夫人给算卦的事忘得一干二净了，因为我的妻子正匆匆向我跑来。“你躲到哪
儿去了？”她不耐烦地问，“再有不到一个小时你姐姐就要到这儿了，我们得去车站接她。现在就已经晚了。”当她走开时，我也跟着她出了集市。 
 
【课文讲解】 
 
1、A relation of yours is coming to see you. 
a relation of yours 	您的一个亲戚（双重所有格）句中的现在进行时并不表示目前正在进行的动作，而表示将要发生的事情。 
 
2、	The moment you leave this tent, you will get a big surprise. 
	the moment = as soon as 	一……就……（在这个连词引导的时间状语从句中要用一般现在时来表示 
将来时） 
 
3、	That is all. 在口语中表示“完了，就这些，事情就是这样”。 
He borrowed some money from me. That’s all. 他向我借了些钱，仅此而已。 
 
4、	As soon as I went outside, I forgot all about Madam Bellinsky because my wife hurried towards me. 
这句话中的 all 是代词，表示“一切，全部，所有的事”，它作主语时被视为单数： 
All I can remember is her name. 
hurry towards sb. 	向某人匆匆走去  
5、	Your sister will be here in less than an hour and we must be at the station to meet her. must be 表示用现在时态指将来的状况，这句话也可变成： 
We must go to the station to meet her. 
 
【Key structures】 	 
表示将要发Th的事情 
在英语中，现在进行时也可用来表示为将来安排好的活动和事件。这种用法通常需要一个表示时间的  状语（往往是不久的将来）。arrive，come，go，leave     等动词的进行式经常有这种用法，表示行程安排有关的
“将到达，将离去”等意思： 
He’s arriving this evening. 
We’re spending next winter in Australia. 
He’s meeting the vicar in two days’ time. 
当时间状语从句表示将来时，在 after，as soon as，before，by the time，the moment，till，until 和 when 
等后面通常不用一般将来时而用一般现在时；不用将来完成时而用现在完成时。这两种现在时态在时间连  词后面常常可以互换： 
The Thompsons will move to a new flat when their baby is/ has been born. 
I’ll make it before he comes. 
在第 1 类条件句中，if 之后通常用一般现在时表示将来可能发生的事： 
If he gets the job, he’ll be going abroad. 
I’ll give her a meal if she’s hungry. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 
由名词+名词构成的复合名词 
第一个名词通常起形容词（或修饰语）的作用，而且一般都用单数。这类复合名词可以代替 of 结构， 如 
a car key（汽车钥匙），a chair leg（椅子腿）；也可以理解为第一个名词指地点，第二个词指该地点中的东西，
如 a village pub（乡村酒吧），a world record（世界纪录），a kitchen sink（厨房洗涤槽）；也可以表示 
 
时间，如 a Christams card（圣诞卡），an evening dress（晚礼服），afternoon tea（下午茶）；也可以表示分类，如 a horror film（恐怖电影），a flower shop（花店），a taxi-driver（出租车司机）；也可以表示材料，如 a fur coat（裘皮大衣），a gold watch（金表），cigarette ends（香烟头）。  