
 
Lesson 84 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（11） 	On strike 
strike 	n. 罢工 	
busman 	n. 公共汽车司机 	
state 	v. 正式提出，宣布 	
agreement 	n. 协议 	
relieve 	v.  减轻 	
pressure 	n. 压力，麻烦 	
extent 	n. 程度 	
volunteer 	v. 自动提出，自愿 	
gratitude 	n. 感激 	
Press 	n. 新闻界 	
object 	v. 不赞成，反对 	
 
	★ relieve 	v. 减轻 
①	vt. 缓解，减轻 
This will relieve pressure on the trains to some extent. This medicine has relieved my toothache. 
②	vt. 使……宽心/宽慰，松一口气 
He was much relieved to hear that the operation had been successful. The news relieved te whole family. 
 
	★ volunteer 	v. 自动提出，自愿 
①	vt. &vi. 自愿，自动提出，自愿提供 
Some college students have volunteered to drive buses while the strike lasts. 
After the fire, many people volunteered their services. Frank has volunteered for the army. 
②	n. 自愿参加者，志愿者 
	Are there any volunteers for a try? 	有自愿试一试的人吗？ 
 
	★ Press 	n. 新闻界（集合名词） 
Ian is a member of the press. 
	The press is/are waiting to see the president. 	记者们在等着见总统。 
 
【Text】 
Busmen have decided to go on strike next week. The strike is due to begin on Tuesday. No one knows how long it will last. The busmen have stated that the strike will continue until general agreement is reached about pay and working conditions. Most people believe that the strike will last for at least a week. Many owners of private cars are going to offer 'free rides' to people on their way to work. This will relieve pressure on the trains to some extent. Meanwhile, a number of university students have volunteered to drive buses while the strike lasts. All the students are 
 
expert drivers, but before they drive any of the buses, they will have to pass a special test. The students are going to take the test in two days' time. Even so, people are going to find it difficult to get to work. But so far, the public has expressed its gratitude to the students in letters to the Press. Only one or two people have objected that the students will drive too fast! 
 
参考译文 
公共汽车司机决定下星期罢工。罢工定于星期二开始，谁也不知道会持续多久。司机们声称此次罢工  将一直持续到就工资和工作条件问题达成全面协议的时候为止。多数人认为此次罢工至少会持续一个星  期。很多私人汽车的车主正准备为乘车上班的人们提供“免费乘车”的服务，这将在某种程度上减轻对火  车的压力。与此同时，有一部分大学生自愿在罢工期间驾驶公共汽车。所有的学生都是开车的能手，但在  驾驶公共汽车之前，他们必须通过一项专门测验。学生们准备在两天后就接受测验。即使这样，人们仍会  感到上班有困难。但到目前为止，公众已经向新闻界写信表达他们对学生们的感激之情了。只有一两个人  提出反对意见，说学生们会把车开得太快！ 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	Busmen have decided to go on strike next week. 
go on strike 	举行罢工 on strike 	在罢工 
It is not clear yet when the teachers on strike will return to their classrooms. 
 
2、	The strike is due to begin on Tuesday. 
	due 	adj. 预定的，约定的 
be due to do sth. 定于（某时做某事） 
The plane is due (to arrive) in London at 9 o’clock. 
	be due to +n. 	由于……，因为…… 
Our delay was due to the heavy traffic.  
3、	Many owners of private cars are going to offer 'free rides' to people on their way to work. free ride 	免费乘车 
 
4、	This will relieve pressure on the trains to some extent. to some extent =to a certain extent 在某种程度上
The weather has helped me to some/a certain extent. 
 
5、	Only one or two people have objected that the students will drive too fast! object that… 	提出异议，反对 
They objected that the book was too difficult for them. object to 名词/动名词 反对，不喜欢，不赞成 
A lot of people object to smoking in public places. Do you object to my sitting beside you? 
 
【Special Difficulties】
it 作先行宾语  
 
在主语+动词+宾语+宾语补足语的句型中，常用 it 作先行宾语，真正的宾语为后面的动词不定式或从 
句： 
People are going to find it difficult to get to work. 
常用这种结构的动词有：find，think，consider，feel，make，keep 等： 
She felt it right for them to arrest the thief. 
They consider it impossible to finish the work in three days.  