
 
	Lesson 58 	A blessing in disguise? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（16） 
blessing 	n. 福分，福气 
disguise 	n. 伪装 
tiny 	adj. 极小的 
possess 	v. 拥有 
cursed 	adj. 可恨的 
increase 	v.  增加 
plant 	v.  种植 
church 	n. 教堂 
evil 	adj. 坏的 
reputation 	n. 名声 
claim 	v. 以……为其后果 
victim 	n. 受害者，牺牲品 
vicar 	n. 教区牧师 
source 	n. 来源 
income 	n. 收入 
trunk 	n. 树干 
 
★	blessing 	n. 福气, 福分 bless 	v. 保佑 
God bless you! =Bless you! 上帝保佑你 
	Bless my country. 	保佑我的国家 
 
★	disguise 	n. 伪装 in disguise 	穿着伪装的 
	a wolf in disguise 	披着羊皮的狼, 被伪装的狼 
	a blessing in disguise 	因祸得福 
a curse in disguise 
	(curse] 	n. 诅咒, 咒语, 祸根, 祸因；vt. 诅咒, 咒骂, 降祸, 使受罪) 
 
★	tiny adj. 极小的 tiny = very very small 
 
★	possess v. 拥有 sb. possess sth. 某人有某物 
	possession 	n. 拥有, 占有, 所有, 着迷, 领土, 领地, 财产(常用复数), 自制 
in one's possession 某人有某物 
 
★	cursed 	adj. 可恨的 cursed 	adj. 被诅咒的, 邪恶的如果有-ed 构成形容词, 做为形容词读音要读/id/ 
 
★	increase vt. 增加 add 为及物动词；grow 为不及物动词 
 
★	plant v. 种植 plant 强调把东西给种下去 plant tree 种树(只是种, 活不活不管) 
Tree Planting day 	植树节 grow 	v. 生长 
	grow sth. 	种庄稼(不但种, 还要让它生长) 
 
★	church 	n. 教堂 
church 加 the 表示地点；church 不加 the 和功能有关 
go to the church 	去教堂玩 I am at the church. 在教堂玩 
	go to church 	去教堂做礼拜 
I am at church. 做礼拜 
 
★	evil 	adj. 坏的 evil = wicked 	adj. 邪恶的  
★	reputation 	n. 名声 
good reputation   好名声； bad reputation 坏名声 
fame n. 名声（一定是好名声）, 名望, 传说, <古>传闻 famous  adj. 著名的, 出名的, <口>极好的, 令人满意的 
 
★	claim 	v. 以……为其后果 claim = take 拿, 索取 
claim 可以表示（疾病、意外等）夺去（生命） 
The accident claimed a few lives. 
 
★	source 	n. 来源 resource 	 n. 资源(一次又一次的来源，re-又) reread 	vt.重读, 再读 sauce 	n. 沙司, 酱油, 调味料；vt. 调味, 使增加趣味（读音与 source 相同） 
 
★	income 	n. 收入 rent 	v. 租，租借，出租；n. 租金 interest 	n. 兴趣，关心，重要性，影响，利息，利益，利害 vt. 使发生兴趣，引起……的注意 
	bonus 	n. 奖金, 红利 
DINK-丁克家族 : D－double，I－income，N－no，K－kids  
 
	kid 	n.哄骗，取笑，开玩笑，小孩，小ft羊；v. 哄骗，取笑，开玩笑，欺骗 
 
【Text】 
The tiny village of Frinley is said to possess a 'cursed tree'. Because the tree was mentioned in a newspaper, the number of visitors to Frinley has now increased. The tree was planted near the church fifty years ago, but it is only in recent years that it has gained an evil reputation. It is said that if anyone touches the tree, he will have bad luck; if he picks a leaf, he will die. Many villagers believe that the tree has already claimed a number of victims. The vicar has been asked to have the tree cut down, but so far he has refused. He has pointed out that the tree cut down, but so far he has refused. He has pointed out that the tree is a useful source of income, as tourists have been coming from all parts of the country to see it. In spite of all that has been said, the tourists have been picking leaves and cutting their names on the tree-trunk. So far, not one of them has been struck down by sudden death! 
 
参考译文据说弗林利这个小村里有一棵 “该诅咒的树” . 就因为报上提到过这棵树, 所以现在来弗林利参观的人越来越多. 该树是 50 年前栽在教堂附近的, 但只是近几年才得到了一个坏名声. 据说, 谁要是触摸了这棵树, 谁就会交上恶运; 如果谁摘了一片树叶, 谁就会死去. 很多村民相信此树已经害了不少人. 人们曾请求教区的牧师叫人把树砍掉, 但他直到现在也没有同意. 他指出, 由于人们从全国各地纷纷前来参观这棵树, 它成了一个有用的财源. 尽管有上述种种说法, 但游客们还是照常摘树叶和把他们的名字刻在树干上. 然而到目前为止, 还没有一个人暴死呢! 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、The tiny village of Frinley is said to possess a 'cursed tree'. 
There/名词主语/代词主语 +be said to do sth. 据说……（是对不太有把握的事发表看法时一种谨慎的说法） 
There is said to be a great deal of oil in Africa. 
Dan is said to be the most intelligent student in his class. 
	It’s not as old as it’s said to be. 	它并不像人们所说的那么古老。 
	it is said that… 	据说…… 
	It is said that he is very good. ＝ He is said to be very good. 	据说他人非常好
用于这种结构的动词除了 say 之外，还有believe，know，find，fear，think 等： 
It is feared that many lives have been lost in the train. 在这次列车事故中，恐怕有不少人丧生。 
	the tiny village of Frinley 	 弗林利这个小村庄，其中介词 of 表示的是同位关系： 
the city of Beijing 名叫北京的城市 at the age of twenty 20 岁时 
	a height of three feet 	三英尺的高度 
 
2、Because the tree was mentioned in a newspaper, the number of visitors to Frinley has now increased. mention vt. 提到, 提及 
My father ofter mentions you. 
 
	in a newspaper 	强调报纸里面的内容 
on the newspaper 与报纸内容无关, 如你自己在报纸上记了什么东西时用 “on” a number of…＝lots of… 许多……（后跟可数名词的复数，做复数看待，从前往后翻, 强调后面的 
东西） 
	a number of students 	许多学生 
the number of… ……的数量/总数（后跟可数名词的复数，但做单数看，从后往前翻, 强调数量） the number of students 学生的数量 
 
3、	The tree was planted near the church fifty years ago, but it is only in recent years that it has gained an evil reputation. 
	it is/was …（被强调部分 that/who(m)+ 从句） 	万能强调结构 
It is I that am looking for you. 	强调 “I” It is Jack who(m) Frank phoned last night. gain＝get 得到 
 
4、	It is said that if anyone touches the tree, he will have bad luck; if he picks a leaf, he will die. 
英语中分号可以断开两个句子 
	anyone 	任何人，与 he 相对应 
If anyone wanted to go there, he will do sth.  
5、	The vicar has been asked to have the tree cut down, but so far he has refused. 
sb. be asked to do sth. 被请求做某事，sb.做事 have sth. done 使某事被做，叫别人完成某事 
I will go to have my bicycle repaired. （别人修车） 
I will go to repair my bicycle. （自己修车） 
I will have my hair cut. 
make sth. done 让某事被做 
Could you make yourself known? 	你能让别人知道你吗?(你的自我介绍) 
=Could you introduce yourdself? 	你能自我介绍一下吗? 
Could you make youself heard ? 	你能让别人听到你吗?(你能大声点吗?) 
make 的用法：make +宾语+宾补；make +sb.+do 让某人做某事；make +sth.+done 让别人做某事 
	so far 	迄今为止（常与现在完成时连用） 
He hasn’t returned my books so far. 
 
6、He has pointed out that the tree is a useful source of income, as tourists have been coming from all parts of the country to see it. 
	point out = explain 	指出，解释 
I realized that he had make a mistake, so I pointed it out to him immediately. He pointed out that it was a mistake not to help them. 
 
7 、 In spite of all that has been said, the tourists have been picking leaves and cutting their names on the tree-trunk. 
	in spite of 	尽管，虽然；不顾，不管 
 
He set off in spite of the heavy rain. 
	in spite of all that… = in spite of what 	尽管…… 
（in spite of 介词后面不能接从句, 只能加 what 引导的从句） 
In spite of what you have told me, I still believe (that) he has stolen the money. 
 
8、So far, not one of them has been struck down by sudden death! 
not one of＝none of  一个人也没有……，单数≠no one of（no one 不能加 of） be struck down 被打倒（stike down 使……生重病，杀死） 
Many people were struck down in that war. He was stuck down by cancer last year. 
	poverty-struck 穷困潦倒 （poverty 	n. 贫穷, 贫困, 贫乏, 缺少） 
 
【Letter writing】常用开头语： 
You will be glad to hear that… 
Thank you for letting me know that… 
 
 
【Special difficulties】
Increase and Grow 
	increase 	vt. &vi. 增加，增大，增长，增强 
The firm has increased his salary. His salary has increased. 
	grow 	vi. 增长，长，成长，生长 
The number of vistors to Frinley has now grown/increased. The students in this university has grown in number. 
How tall you’ve become! How you’ve grown! 
She has grown so much she is nearly as tall as I am. 
grow＝increase(表示数量增长) 
The number is increasing/growing. 
 
Gain and Earn 
	gain 	vt.  获得，得到（＝get sth.）；受益，获益（earn 无此含义） 
Jane has gained much from her year in Australia. 
	earn 	vt. (通过努力)获得，得到；赚钱（gain 无此含义） 
	earn money 	挣钱 
	earn one's living 	谋生 
	Try to save as you earn. 	挣了钱时要设法存起来。 
She earns $500 a month. It has gained/earned an evil reputation. 
 
Pick and Cut 
	pick 	vt. 采摘，采集 
 
They picked a lot of flowers yesterday. 
	cut 	vt. 切，割，剪
She cut an apple in two. 
Can you cut your own hair? 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4 If anyone picked the leaves, he ___a__ die. 
	a. would 	b. will 	c.shall 	d. would have 
虚拟语气：如果 if 后面直接出现正常条件的话，就会出现一般现在时，一旦出现一般过去时，就是与 
现在事实相反的虚拟语气。 
 
6 ___b___all that has been said, the tourists have been picking leaves. 
a. In spite b. Despite c. Even d. Even so in spite of + 名词/what 引导的从句，不能少 of despite    = in spite of 尽管 （despite prep. 不管, 尽管, 不论） even though 尽管(后面加句子)，没有 even all、even so 的表达式 
 
7 So far ___d___of them has been struck down by sudden death. 
	a. no one 	b. nobody 	c. not any 	d.none 
‘no one’, ‘nobody’ 不能与’of’ 连用没有’not any of ’ 的结构，只有‘any of’ 
9 The number of visitors has increased. The number has _ a_ . 
a. grown 	 	b. grown up 	c.overgrown 	d. grown old grown up 	成长(只与人连用) overgrow 	过度成长 grown old 	变老了,不译为 “长老了” grow 一般作为实义动词,后面加介词或副词,一旦后面加了形容词,不再表示 “生长” 的意思,将表示 
“变得” =get 
 
10 It has___d___ an evil reputation. 
a. won  	b.beaten 	c. profited 	d. earned win 	v.  赢得(通过比赛或竞争) ； beat  	v. 打败(后加对手) profit 	n.利润, 益处, 得益；vi. 得益, 利用；vt. 有益于, 有利于 gain = get 获得 