
 
	Lesson 70 	Red for danger 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（16） 
bullfight 	n. 斗牛 
drunk 	n. 醉汉 
wander 	v. 溜达，乱走 
ring 	n. 圆形竞技场地 
unaware 	adj. 不知道的，未觉察的 
bull 	n. 公牛 
matador 	n. 斗牛士 
remark 	n. 评论；言语 
apparently 	adv. 明显地 
sensitive 	adj. 敏感的 
criticism 	n. 批评 
charge 	v. 冲上去 
clumsily 	adv. 笨拙地 
bow 	v. 鞠躬 
safety 	n. 安全地带 
sympathetically 	adv. 同情地 
 
★	sensitive 	adj. 敏感的，神经过敏的，易生气的，介意的（常与 to+名词连用） 
Mary is sensitive to smells. 
	You’re too sensitive. 	你太敏感了（太容易生气）。 
Mary has a sensitive ear. 
 
★	charge 	v. 冲上去 
①	vt. &vi. 要价，收费 
They charged us too much for repairs. 
How much do you charge for this dress? 
②	vt. 指控，指责 
The police charged him with murder. He charged Gary with speeding. 
③	vt. &vt. 猛攻，冲向，冲锋，向前冲 
The bull charged at the drunk. 
 
	★ bow 	v. 鞠躬 
①	vt. &vt. 鞠躬，欠身，低下（头等） 
The crowd broke into cheers and the drunk bowed. 
As she couldn’t answer the question, she bowed her head. 
②	vi. 让步，屈服，服从 
Why did you bow to their decision? 
He finally bowed before money and married the other girl. 
 
③	vt. 压弯，压倒 
	My mother is bowed with age. 	我母亲因年老而腰弯背驼。 
The little tree is bowed with snow. 
 
【Text】 
During a bullfight, a drunk suddenly wandered into the middle of the ring. The crowd began to shout, but the drunk was unaware of the danger. The bull was busy with the matador at the time, but it suddenly caught sight of the drunk who was shouting rude remarks and waving a red cap. Apparently sensitive to criticism, the bull forgot all about the matador and charged at the drunk. The crowd suddenly grew quiet. The drunk, however, seemed quite sure of himself. When the bull got close to him, he clumsily stepped aside to let it pass. The crowd broke into cheers and the drunk bowed. By this time, however, three men had come into the ring and they quickly dragged the drunk to safety. Even the bull seemed to feel sorry for him, for it looked on sympathetically until the drunk was out of the way before once more turning its attention to the matador. 
 
参考译文在一次斗牛时，一个醉汉突然溜达到斗牛场中间，人们开始大叫起来，但醉汉却没有意识到危险。当   时那公牛正忙于对付斗牛士，但突然它看见了醉汉，只见他正大声说着粗鲁的话，手里挥动着一顶红帽子。  对挑衅显然非常敏感的公牛完全撇开斗牛士，直奔醉汉而来。观众突然静了下来，可这醉汉像是很有把握   似的。当公牛逼近他时，他踉跄地住旁边一闪，牛扑空了。观众欢呼起来，醉汉向人们鞠躬致谢。然而，   此时已有 3 个人进入斗牛场，迅速把醉汉拉到安全的地方。好像连牛也在为他感到遗憾，因为它一直同情地看着醉汉，直到他的背影消逝，才重新将注意力转向斗牛士。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、The crowd began to shout, but the drunk was unaware of the danger. be unaware of… 不知道，没有觉察…… 
While she read the book, she was unaware of the noise around her. 
	I was unaware that you were coming. 	我不知道你要来。 
 
2、	The bull was busy with the matador at the time, but it suddenly caught sight of the drunk who was shouting rude remarks and waving a red cap. 
catch sight of… 突然看到…… 
As I came out of the shop, I caught sight of Dan in the crowd. 
 
3、	The drunk, however, seemed quite sure of himself. be/feel sure of oneself 有自信心 
She’s always so sure of herself.  
4、	Apparently sensitive to criticism, the bull forgot all about the matador and charged at the drunk. sensitive to criticism 对挑衅/批评敏感 charge at … 向……攻击 
 
5、	The crowd broke into cheers and the drunk bowed. break into cheers 突然喝起彩来 
break into… 突然发出，突然……起来 
On hearing the news, she broke into tears. When Sally saw the woman wearing a hat that looked like a lighthouse, she broke into laughter. 
 
6、	Even the bull seemed to feel sorry for him, for it looked on sympathetically until the drunk was out of the way before once more turning its attention to the matador. look on 	旁观，观看 
Many people just looked on while the two men robbed a woman. 
	out of the way 	不碍事，不挡路 
While making meat pies, I always order the children to keep out of the way. 在做肉馅饼时，总是命令孩子们不要碍事。 
 
【Letter Writing】常用开头语： 
I have not forgotten that… 
You will find it hard to believe, but… 
I am afraid I… 
 
【Key structures】 
与 for，with，of，to，at，from，in，on 和 about 连用的形容词 
与 for 连用的形容词：eager  for（渴望），enough for（足够），famous for（以……而闻名），fit for（合
适），grateful for/to（因……而感激），qualified for/in（能胜任），ready for/to（准备好），responsible for（对……负责），sorry for（对……感到遗憾），sufficient for（充足的），thankful for/to（感谢），valid for（有效期为……） 
We have enough apples for the children. 
They were eager for the performance to begin. My aunt is famous for her beauty. 
与 with 连用的形容词：angry with sb./at sth.（因某人或某事生气），busy with/at（忙于……），consistent 
with（与……一致），content with（对……满足），familiar with/to（与……熟悉），patient with（有耐心）， popular with（为……所喜爱） 
Why was Mary angry with you? 
She wasn’t content with her life. 
Uncle Sam is always popular with children. 
与 of 连用的形容词：afraid of（害怕），ahead of（在……前面），aware of（知道），capable of（能够）， careful of/with（小心），certain of（确信），conscious of（意识到），envious of（妒忌），fond of（爱好），guilty of （有……罪的），ignorant of（不了解），independent of（独立于），jealous of（妒忌），kind of/to（对……和蔼），north/south/east/west of（在……的北/南/东/西面），short of（缺乏），shy of（顾虑），sure of（肯定）， worthy of（值得） 
	She is careful his coming. 	她注意衣着。 
I was short of money at that time. 
与 to 连用的形容词：close to（接近于），contrary to（与……相反），cruel to（对……残忍），dear to（对……很重要），equal to（与……相等），faithful to（忠于……），fatal to（对……是致命的），harmful to （对……有害的），identical to（与……相同的），indifferent to（对……不关心），inferior to（劣于……）， liable to（对……有义务的），new to（对……没有经验），obedient to（对……服从），obvious to（对……清楚的），polite to（对……有礼貌），previous to（先于），rude to（对……粗暴无礼），sensitive to（对……敏感）， similar to（与……相似），useful to（对……有用） 
Most people are sensitive to criticism. 
Though the bicycle is old, it is very dear to me. 虽然这辆自行车破旧，但我很珍视它。 
All these words are new to me. 所有这些单词我都是第一次遇到。 
	It’s obvious to everyone that he’s lying. 	大家都清楚他在撒谎。 
	My car is similar to yours. 	我的车与你的车相似。 
与 at 连用的形容词：bad at（不善于……），clever at（擅长），efficient at（能胜任的），expert at/in（能熟练做……），good at（善于），indignant at（对……感到愤慨），quick at（很快），sad at/about（因……而悲伤），slow at（对……迟钝），skillful at/in（熟练） 
I am good/bad at swimming. 
Tom is quick/slow at learning new things. 
与 from 连用的形容词：away from（距……远的），different from（与……不同的），far from（远离）， 
safe from（无危险的） 
The man was far from comfortable while being confined to the wooden box. 那人被闷在木箱里时一点儿也不舒服。 
与 in 连用的形容词：deficient in（缺少），fortunate from（在……很幸运），honest from（对……很诚实）， 
weak from（在……薄弱的） 
You’re fortunate in having a house of your own. Frank is honest in business. 
I’m weak in/at chemics. 
与 on 连用的形容词：dependent on（依赖于……），intent on（专心于……），keen on（热心于……） 
She was keen on tennis. 
You shouldn’t be so intent on making money. Are you still dependent on your father? 
与 about 连用的形容词：curious about（对……好奇的），doubtful about/of（对……有疑问），enthusiastic about（对……热心），reluctant  about/to（勉强），right  about/in（在……是正确的），uneasy  about（对…… 感到不安） 
She is uneasy about her future. 她为自己的前途担心。 
I’m doubtful about/of his words. 