
 
	Lesson 12 	Goodbye and good luck 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（6） luck 	n. 运气，幸运 captain 	n. 船长 sail 	v.  航行 harbour 	n. 港口 proud 	adj. 自豪 
important 	adj. 重要的  
★	luck 	n. 运气, 幸运 
	good luck =break your leg 	祝你好运 
	bless you 	保重（比如在别人打喷嚏时说的话） 
lucky adj. 幸运的 lucky dog 幸运儿 lucky day 幸运日 
It’s my lucky day. 今天我真幸运 luckily adv. 幸运地 unlucky adj. 不幸的  
★	sail 	v. 航行 
①	vi. （船）航行，扬帆行驶 
The ship is sailing for New York. 
②	vi. （人）乘船航行 
I want to sail around the world. 
③ n. 帆，篷 
This boat has white salis. 
 
★	harbour 	n. 港口 port 	n. 港口 
	air port 	航空港 
 
★	proud adj. 自豪，自满 be proud of 以……为自豪，为（某人）感到自豪 
Parents are proud of their children. 
	pride 	n. 自豪 
take pride in 以……为自豪 
 
★	important 	adj. 重要的 importance 	n. 重大 
 
【Text】 
 
Our neighbour, Captain Charles Alison, will sail from Portsmouth tomorrow. We'll meet him at the harbour early in the morning. He will be in his small boat, Topsail. Topsail is a famous little boat. It has sailed across the Atlantic many times. Captain Alison will set out at eight o'clock, so we'll have plenty of time. We'll see his boat and then we'll say goodbye to him. He will be away for two months. We are very proud of him. He will take part in an important race across the Atlantic. 
 
参考译文 
我们的邻居查尔斯.艾利森船长明天就要从朴次茅斯(英国港市)启航了.    明天一大早我们将在码头为他送行. 他将乘坐他的 “涛波赛” 号小艇. “涛波赛” 号是艘有名的小艇, 它已经多次横渡大西洋. 艾利森船长将于 8 点钟启航, 因此我们有充裕的时间. 我们将参观他的船, 然后和他告别. 他要离开两个月, 我们真为他感到自豪, 他将参加一次重大的横渡大西洋的比赛. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	We'll meet him at the harbour early in the morning. 
在表示时间的短语 in the morning，in the afternoon 等前面可以再加上 early，late 等副词，以便确切地表示时间 
	early in the morning 	一大早 
	late in the afternoon 	傍晚 
 
2、	It has sailed across the Atlantic many times. 
across 是对某个细长物“横切、横断、横渡”等，尤指河流、马路、海洋等；过桥用 over the Atlantic =the Atlantic Ocean 	大西洋 once，twice，three times… 
表示次数的时候, for 一定不能加 
I do something twice. 
 
3、Captain Alison will set out at eight o'clock, so we'll have plenty of time. 
set out/set off/begin something 	出发，动身 plenty =enough 相对多，充足的，足够的 plenty of 	足够多的…… 
I have plenty of money. 
a lot of 指客观上的多 
 
4、	We'll see his boat and then we'll say goodbye to him. 
	see = visit 	参观 
Can I see it? say goodbye (to sb.)；say hello to (to sb.)；say sorry to (to sb.) I said hello to him this morning. You must say sorry to somebody. 
 
5、	He will be away for two months. 
瞬间动词不是不能用完成时态, 而是指不能与段时间连用, 一旦要用段时间就要将其变为 “系表结构” 即 “be + 形容词或介词短语构成” 
 
He has been away for two hours. 
=He left two hours ago.点时间 
有的动词可用be+形容词系表结构表状态来代替 
arrive= be here/there ；leave= be away ；die = be dead ； join(也是瞬间动词) = be a soldier/in the army 
 
 
6、	He will take part in an important race across the Atlantic. take part (in) 	参加，参与（某项活动） enter for 	报名参加 
I have entered for the meeting,but now I don't want to take part in the meeting. 
an important race across the Atlantic 	横渡大西洋的比赛（介词短语做定语放在被修饰词的后面） the person at the door 
be in the race = take part in the race 参加比赛 at the race 在比赛场地观看比赛 
 
【Key structures】 	 
一般将来时 
１、	一般将来时表示将要发生的动作或存在的状态 
２、	将来时的结构 
①	基本结构: shall/will + 动词原形 shall 常用在第一人称 I 或 we 的后面，而 will 可用于所有人称，缩略为’ll，否定式中，will not 可缩略为’ll not 或 won’t，shall not 缩略shan’t（在美语中很少用 shall） 
②	be going to do sth./ be gonna do sth.（美语） 打算做某事; be going to 与will 一般可以互换，但与打算无关含义的句子, will 与 be going to do 不能互换 I’ll miss you. （不能用 be going to） 
He'll lose. 他要输了。（不能用 be going to） 
I'll be sixteen years old next year. （不能用 be going to） 
③	be + to do sth. 表示计划安排在某事或用来征求意见 
I am to have a holiday. 
④	be about to do sth. 即将做某事. 
⑤	will be doing 表示将要做某事 
⑥	be doing （瞬间动词） 用现在进行时表示将来时态 
用现在进行时表示将来的动词有：go，come，arrive，leave，die，land，join 
⑦	be 一般现在时表示将要发生 
If it rains, … 
 
【Special Difficulties】 be+副词构成的表语 
动词 be 如与不同的副词连用意义不同，意思主要由副词的意义决定： be in   在家；be out   出去；be away 离开；be on 上映；be back 回来；be over 结束；be up to sth. 胜任某件事情, 能够做某件事 
 
set+副词构成的短语动词 set out 	出发，动身 
When’ll you set out for London? 
	set off 	出发，启程 
I’ll set off for home the day after tomorrow. 
	set up 	创立，建立；（a record）创造……记录 
Mr. Jackson has set up a school in the village. Has Tom set up a new world record?  