
 
	Lesson 51 	Reward for Virtue 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（10） 
reward 	n. 报偿 
virtue 	n. 美德 
diet 	n. 节食 
forbid 	v.  禁止 
hurriedly 	adv. 匆忙地 
embarrass 	v. 使尴尬 
guiltily 	adv. 内疚地 
strict 	adj. 严格的 
reward 	v. 给奖赏 
occasionally 	adv. 偶尔地 
 
★	reward n. 报偿；v.  给奖赏 give sb. reward 给……报偿 reward sb. with sth.  用……奖赏... 
	reward sb. for sth. 	因为……给某人奖赏 
…reward him for the first prize 
 
★	virtue n. 美德 strongpoints n.  长处， merit n. 优点 
	shortpoints 	n.  短处， weak points 	弱点 
 
★	diet 	n. 节食 
go on a diet =be on a diet 实行节食  
★	forbid（forbade，forbidden） v.禁止 forbid sb. to do sth. 	禁止某人做某事 allow sb. to do sth. 	 允许某人做某事 
	Forbidden City 	紫禁城 (被禁止的城市)   ；Forbidden fruit 禁果 
 
★	embarrass v. 使尴尬 sth. embarrass sb. ……让……感到尴尬 
You embarrassed me. 	你让我感到尴尬 embarrassing 	adj. 令人尴尬地；embarrassed 	adj.  感到尴尬 embarrassment 	n. 尴尬 
To my embarrassment，… 让我感到尴尬的是…… 
 
★	guiltily 	adv. 内疚地 guiltily conscience 	 问心有愧 clear conscience 	问心无愧  
 
★	strict adj. 严格的 be strict with sb. 对某人严格 
My father is strict with me. 
be strict in sth. 	对……严格  
★	occasionally 	adv. 偶而地 
on the occasion 偶尔， sometimes 偶尔 ，at times 偶尔 off and on 偶尔 ， now and again 偶尔 
 
【Text】 
My friend, Hugh, has always been fat, but things got so bad recently that he decided to go on a diet. He began his diet a week ago. First of all, he wrote out a long list of all the foods which were forbidden. The list included most of the things Hugh loves: butter, potatoes, rice, beer, milk, chocolate; and sweets. Yesterday I paid him a visit. I rang the bell and was not surprised to see that Hugh was still as fat as ever. He led me into his room and hurriedly hid a large parcel under his desk. It was obvious that he was very embarrassed. When I asked him what he was doing, he smiled guiltily and then put the parcel on the desk. He explained that his diet was so strict that he had to reward himself occasionally. Then he showed me the contents of the parcel. It contained five large bars of chocolate and three bags of sweets! 
 
参考译文 
我的朋友休一直很胖, 但是近来情况变得越发糟糕, 以致他决定节食. 他是一星期前开始节食的. 首先, 
他开列了一张长长的单子, 上面列了所有禁吃的食物. 这张单子上的大多数食物都是休喜欢吃的 : 黄油、土豆、米饭、啤酒、牛奶、巧克力和糖果. 昨天我去看望了他. 我按响了门铃. 当看到休仍和往常一样胖时, 我并不感到惊奇. 他把我领进屋, 慌忙把一个大包藏到了桌子下面. 显然他感到很尴尬. 当我问他正干什么时, 他内疚地笑了, 然后把那个大包拿到了桌上. 他解释说, 他的饮食控制得太严格了, 以致不得不偶尔奖赏自己一下. 接着他给我看了包里的东西. 里面装了 5 大块巧克力和 3 袋糖果! 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、My friend, Hugh, has always been fat, but things got so bad recently that he decided to go on a diet. 
things（要用复数形式）可以表示“情况，情形，状况，形势”等含义： 
You’re surely made things worse. 
How are things going on with you? 
get 作不及物动词时可以表示“变得”： 
I got interested in French. 
diet 用于表示治疗某种疾病或调节体重的“特种饮食”、“规定饮食”时通常与 on 连用： 
The doctor put him on a strict diet. 医生让他严格控制饮食。 
I once went on a diet for a week and then I gave up.  
2、	First of all, he wrote out a long list of all the foods which were forbidden. first of all 首先, 首要 (许多事情中首要的, 即最重要的) 
First of all I must see your passpart. 
 
at first 	首先（句型 at first…, then… 起先……然后……) write out 	 写出，（正式）写，全部写出 
You should werite out a report. 
 
3、	The list included most of the things Hugh loves: butter, potatoes, rice, beer, milk, chocolate; and sweets. most of… 	大部分…… 
includ 和 contain 都有“包含”的意思，但 contain 可以用于表示所包含的全部事物；include 则只表示 
其中的一部分。contain  一定是容器里面装，include  则含义更广，在这里不能用contain。It included three bags of sweets. 
Does the bill include a tip? 
We’re including you in our team. 
 
4、	Yesterday I paid him a visit. pay sb. a visit 拜访某人 
Pay you a visit. pay a visit to sb./someplace  拜访某人/某地. call up sb./at someplace 拜访某人/某地 have a visit＝visit 
 
5、I rang the bell and was not surprised to see that Hugh was still as fat as ever. as…as ever 	像往常一样，照旧，依然 as clean as ever；as quiet as ever 
be surprised to do sth. / be surprised at sth.  
6、	He led me into his room and hurriedly hid a large parcel under his desk. 
lead sb. into(进门)； show sb. out(出门)； see sb. off(送行) 
 
7、	It was obvious that he was very embarrassed. 
obviously <adv.> ＝ it was obvious that…(it 为形式主语) 显然…… 
 
【Letter writing】 
如果给一个不很熟悉的人写信, 应按如下方式开头：亲爱的布朗先生，亲爱的史密斯夫人。在姓名之 
后总要加上一个逗号。对对方熟悉, 但是为了表示一种尊重, 也可这么写。 
写信开头：你的姐姐(Dear +姐姐的名字), 你的朋友比尔(Dear Bill), 你的老板(Dear Mr./Mrs. +某人), 你
的老校长(Dear Mr./Mrs. +姓)。在不知道对方性别姓名时 : 如应聘信开头 Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
【Key structures】 	 
一般过去时 
与一般过去时常用的两个词是 once 和 recently，recently 在表示“最近一段时期”时也可以与现在完成 
时连用。一般过去时可以用于时间状语从句中，一般过去时可以用于与最近的打算比较时。【Special difficulties】 Raise and Rise. 
rais 作动词时只能作及物动词，即它必须跟宾语。它可以表示“举起，往上提，使……升高”等含义： 
Will those who agree with me please raise their hands? 
Why did they raise prices? 
Heavy rains have raised the level of the river this year. 
rise 作动词时通常为不及物动词，表示“起立，起床，（日、月等）升起”等含义： 
You’re still in bed and the sun has already risen! All the students rose when the teacher came into the classroom. 
 
Lay and Lie. 
lay（laid，laid） vt. 置，搁，铺，准备 
I laid your clothes on the bed so you could put them away. 
If you can’t cook the dinner, you can at least lay the table. lie（lay，lain） vi. 躺，平卧 
Are you going to spend the whole morning lying in bed?  
Beat and Win. 
	beat 	vt. 打败，战胜，胜过，超过 
They beat their enemy, though they were fewer in number. 
I beat you. 我打败了你。表示一个球队打败另一个球队也用 beat。 
	win 	vt.  在……获胜（成功），赢得，获得，夺得 
Who won the race/ the war? beat 后面接对手，win 不能接对手。 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 4 How long ago _ d___his diet? 
a.will he begin b.has he begun c. was he beginning d. did he begin 注意因为有 ago 的词, 一定不用完成时, 用一般过去时  
11 He was very embarrassed. He felt ___d_ . 
	a.shy 	b.shameful 	c.hot 	d.uncomfortable 
注意以下三类词： 
①	感官动词 feel, smell(闻起来 : The food smeel well.), sound(听起来 : The idea sound good.) 
②	变得 get , become 
③	lie 
feel+adj 
	shy 	adj. 害羞的(习惯性的, 在某一种情况下就会作出的反应) 
shame  n. 羞愧 shameful adj. 令人羞愧的 
It’s shameful. (注意它没有 “-ing” 形式) 
	ashamed 	adj. 感到羞愧的 
 
I am ashamed. 
hot 	adj. 热的, 恼火的 uncomfortable 	adj. 不舒服的, 不放松的 （comfortable 一种自在, 轻松, 放松） ill 	adj. 生病 
I feel ill. 
	terrible 	adj. 糟透了, 不舒服  