
 
	Lesson 9 	A cold welcome 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（7） 
welcome 	n. 欢迎；v. 欢迎 
crowd 	n. 人群 
gather 	v.  聚集 
hand 	n. （表或机器的）指针 
shout 	v.  喊叫 
refuse 	v.  拒绝 
laugh 	v. 笑 
 
★ welcome n. 欢迎；v. 欢迎 
① n. 欢迎 
a cold welcome 冷遇 ② v. 欢迎 welcome to+地点 welcome to China；welcome to my home；welcome home；welcome back 
③ adj. 受欢迎的 
You are welcome. 
You are welcome to+地点 
 
★ crowd n. 人群 ① n. 人群 in the crowd 在人群中 
I spotted him in the crowd.       我在人群中一眼就认出了他 a crowd of people      一群人，没有次序的人群, 拥挤的人群a group of people 一群人，有次序的人群 
② v.拥挤, 挤满 
a large crowd of people 一大群人 crowds of people 许多人, 人ft人海  
★ gather v. 聚 集 
①	vt. 使集拢，集合，召集 
He gathered a large crowd of people round him. 
②	vt 收集，采集，收（庄稼等） 
The children are out in the field gathering flowers. 孩子们在外面地里采花。 
It has taken me a lifetime to gather all these books. 收集所有这些书花了我一辈子的时间。 
③	vi. 集拢，聚集，集合 
They gathered under the Town Hall clock. 
people gathered 人们聚集在一起, 尤指自发性的聚集 
 
★	hand n. (表或机器的)指针；手
minute hand；second hand；hour hand 
second hand 二手的，旧的，秒针 
wait me a moment/wait me a few seconds(for a few secs.) （secs.是seconds 的缩写） 
 
★	refuse v. 拒 绝 
①	vt. 拒绝（接受、服从等） 
She refused the gift. 
②	vt. 拒不，不肯，不愿 
John refused to change his mind. 约翰拒不改变主意。 
③	vi. 拒绝，不接受 
I offered to pay him for his help, but he refused. 对于他的帮助我提出给他报酬，但他拒绝了。 
 
★ shout 	v.  喊叫 
call out 	大声喊叫 
cry out 	大声哭喊 
scream 	尖叫 
 
【Text】 
On Wednesday evening, we went to the Town Hall. It was the last day of the year and a large crowd of people had gathered under the Town Hall clock. It would strike twelve in twenty minutes' time. Fifteen minutes passed and then, at five to twelve, the clock stopped. The big minute hand did not move. We waited and waited, but nothing happened. Suddenly someone shouted. 'It's two minutes past twelve! The clock has stopped!' I looked at my watch. It was true. The big clock refused to welcome the New Year. At that moment, everybody began to laugh and sing. 
 
参考译文 
星期三的晚上, 我们去了市政厅. 那是一年的最后一天, 一大群人聚集在市政厅的大钟下面. 再过 20 分钟, 大钟将敲响 12 下. 15 分钟过去了, 而就在 11 点 55 分时, 大钟停了. 那根巨大的分针不动了. 我们等啊等啊, 可情况没有变化. 突然有人喊道 : “已经 12 点零 2 分了!那钟已经停了!” 我看了一下我的手表, 果真如此. 那座大钟不愿意迎接新年. 此时, 大家已经笑了起来, 同时唱起了歌. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、A cold welcome 冷遇 
cold adj. 冷的, 寒冷的, 冷淡的 cold fish 冷漠的人 
My brother is a cold fish. 
lucky dog 幸运的人 
	What does "a cold welcome" refer to ? 	（refer to 	指……） 
 
2 、 On Wednesday evening, we went to the Town Hall. morning，
afternoon，evening 前如果加修饰词则用介词 on，否则用 in  
 
Town Hall 市政厅  
3、	It was the last day of the year and a large crowd of people had gathered under the Town Hall clock. the last day of the year 一年中的最后一天 a large crowd of the people 一大群人 
 
 
4、	It would strike twelve in twenty minutes' time. 
	★ strike 	v. 打，击；敲，弹（钟，乐器等） 
①	v. 打，击 
She struck the man in the face. 
②	v. 敲，弹（钟，乐器等） strike the clock  （人）敲钟 clock strike 	钟自己响
Listen, the clock is striking. 
strike twelve 数字表示敲击的次数 
 minutes'名词所有格，用来表达时间名词所有格表示时间或距离 
It will leave in five minutes'time. 
in twenty(minutes'time)名词所有格可省略
an hour's time 
How far is the school from here? 
3 minutes' walk. 三分钟路程。 
 
5、Fifteen minutes passed and then, at five to twelve, the clock stopped. 
	… minutes pass … 	几点过几分（前半小时，pass 过了） 
25 minutes passed eight 
… minutes to … 几点过几分（后半小时，to 还没到） a quarter to nine/15 minutes to nine 
时刻指点时间, 时间指段时间。时刻前的介词用 at 
 
…(some time) passed and then, sth. happened ……时间过去了，…… An hour passed and then, he arrived. 一个小时过去了，他终于来了。 
…minutes later 几分钟以后  
6、	We waited and waited, but nothing happened. 
waited and waited 等啊等啊, 强调动作的重复（walked and walked；run and run） 
	happen 	vi.事情做主语, 事情发生 
What happened? 
Nothing happened. 
 
7、	It was true. 
It was true that+从句 ……是一个事实  
8、	The big clock refused to welcome the New Year. refuse to do sth. 拒绝去做某事 
	I refuse to leave. 	我拒绝离开 
	I refuse to move. 	我拒绝移动 
 
9、At that moment, everybody began to laugh and sing. 
at that moment = just then 就在那时 
	at the moment = now 	现在, 此刻, 在此时 
 
【Key structures】   引导时间状语的介词 in/on/at/during/till 与 until 
1、用 in 的时间短语有： 
①	表示一天中的某段时间：in the morning；in the afternoon；in the evening 
②	表示周、月份、年份：in a week；in January；in Feb；in 1992 
③	表示季节：in summer；in spring；in autumn；in winter 
in+表示时间长度的短语可以表示“在某段时间之内”，这时可以与现在时、过去时或将来时连用，一 
般与完成某动作有关；还可译为“……时间之后”，一般与将来时连用。根据时态判别 in  表示的含义 in twenty minutes' time 20 分钟之后 
We will finish class in half an hour. 
2、用 on 的时间短语有： 
①	表示星期：on Monday；on Friday 
②	表示日期：on June 1st；on 23rd March（在书写日期时没有冠词，但在口语中则分别读为：on June the first；on the 23rd of March） 
③	表示星期+日期：on Monday, June 1st 
④	表示具体时间：on Wednesday evening；on fine afternoon；on that day 
3、用 at 的时间短语有： 
①	表示确切的时间：at five to twelve；at ten o'clock 
②	表示用餐时间：at lunch/dinner time；at teatime 
③	表示其他时刻：at night；at noon；at midnight；at that time 
4、during 在……期间，后必须跟一个名词，可以指整个一段时间，有时可以用 in 替代 
He has phoned four times during the last half hour. 
I met him sometime during the week.（不能用 in 代替） 我是在这一周的某天遇到他的。 
	during the holiday 	强调假期的从头到尾 
He enjoyed himself during his holiday. 
in the holiday 强调这段时间其中某一点时间, 并不表示自始至终 
I was caught in an accident in the holiday. 
5、	from…till… 	指一段明确的时间： 
The tourist season runs from June till October. 
6、	until 	prep.&coin. 直到……时候，直到什么时候为止, 直到什么时候才 
 
until 主句和从句两个都用一般过去时对(最习惯的一种用法), 主句和从句任何一个用过去完成是也 
 
 对 
I can't enter for the sports meeting until tomorrow. 
I had not understood the problem until he explained it. 
We hadn't disturbed him until he finished work. 
We didn't disturb him until he had finished work. 
We didn't disturb him until he finished work.(更习惯于这种用法) 
7、	from…to… 
Everyday we have English class from 8:30 to 11:30 
 
关于时间表示方法 : What’s the time?/What time is it? 
A 整点 : A o’clock 
A 点 B 分（B<30）: A B / B past A 
A 点 15 分 : A fifteen / fifteen past A / a quarter past A 
A 点 30 分 : A thirty / half past A 
A 点 B 分(B>30) : A B / (60-B) to (A+1) 
A 点 45 分 : A forty-five / a quarter to (A+1) / fifteen to (A+1) 
 
【Special Difficulties】Any， Not...Any and No 
any 用于否定句和疑问句中, some 用于肯定句(或要求得到肯定回答的疑问句) 
Do you have any friends? I don't have any friends. not 用在非实义动词后面, 实义动词前面. 
not any=no <adj.>用在名词前面，no 比 not any 的语气要强，但这两种否定的意义是相同的。I have no friends. no 可构成复合词 nobody，none，nothing，nowhere；any 可构成复合词 anybody，anything 和 anywhere。在一个句子中通常只能有一个否定词（包括 never，hardly 等词） 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4 The people ___a___ under the Town Hall clock. 
a. were 	b.was 	c. is 	d. be people:人们, 做主语一定是复数 police，cattle 是集合名词，用复数  
8 How many times did the clock _ d___ ? 
a. hit b. beat c. knock d. strike 敲门用 knock；敲钟用 strike 
hit（轻）和 strike（重 hit hard)在一定的时候可以互换, 一般表示打一下 beat 	v. 连续不断的打 
beat drums 敲鼓 
 
12 It refused to welcome the New Year. It ___c_ . 
	a. denied it 	b. wanted to 	c. didn't want to 	d. wished to 
 
deny v. 否认, 拒绝去承认, 后面一般加名词 deny the fact 
I denied that I had stolen the bicycle. 
refuse 	v. 拒绝 refuse to do sth. 
I refused to steal the bicycle.  