
 
	Lesson 16 	A polite request 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（9） 
park 	v. 停放（汽车） 
traffic 	n. 交通 
ticket 	n. 交通违规罚款单 
note 	n. 便条 
area 	n. 地段 
sign 	n. 指示牌 
reminder 	n. 提示 
fail 	v. 无视，忘记 
obey 	v. 服从 
 
★	park 	v. 停放(汽车) parking area  停车场 stop the car 	车在运动中停下来  
★	traffic 	n. 交通 traffic police 	交通警 traffic lights 	交通灯,另义为拐弯口, 红绿灯, 十字路口 traffic jam 	交通堵塞 
I spend a lot of time in traffic jam 
	heavy traffic 	繁重的交通 
I was ordered to drive in heavy traffic. （in heavy traffic 交通拥挤） first crossing/turning 叉路口, 拐角  
★	note 	n. 便条 note 	n. 纸条, 纸钞 make notes 做笔记 
message 	n. 消息  
★	area 	n. 地段 area 	n. 场地, 地段(一块对方), 大地点, 小地点都可以 place 	n. 地点 region 	n. 地区(交战, 开火) 
	In this region, there were a lot of wars. 	战火连绵 
 
★	reminder  n. 提示（可以指人，也可以指物, remind v. 提示, 提醒 remind sb. of sth. 
An older photo can remind me of my childhood. You remind me of your mother. 
remind sb. to do sth. 
 
★	fail 	v. 无视, 忘记，失败 
①	vi. 失败 
fail+宾语 做某事失败 
	fail (in) doing sth. 	在某些方面失败 （in 可省略） 
He failed. 
He failed (in) examination. 
②	vi. 不及格 
I hope I haven’t failed in the French test. 
③	vt. 使……不及格 
The teacher said he would fail me if I don’t work harder. 
④	vt. 未能……，不能……，忘记……（后接不定式） fail to do sth. 没有能够做某事，忘记做…… 
He failed to swim across the river. 
He failed to finish his work in time. 
Don’t fail to past the letter for me. 
	not fail to do sth. 	一定能够某事 
I can not fail to pass it. 
	You can not fail to drive it. 	你一定能够驾驶 
If you arrived in Beijing, you cannot fail to find the New Oriental School. 
 
【Text】 
If you park your car in the wrong place, a traffic policeman will soon find it. You will be very lucky if he lets you go without a ticket. However, this does not always happen. Traffic police are sometimes very polite. During a holiday in Sweden, I found this note on my car: 'sir, we welcome you to our city. This is a "No Parking" area. You will enjoy your stay here if you pay attention to our street signs. This note is only a reminder.' If you receive a request like this, you cannot fail to obey it! 
 
参考译文一旦你把汽车停错了地方, 交通警很快就会发现. 如果他没给你罚单就放你走了, 算你走运. 然而, 情
况并不都是这样, 交通警有时也很客气. 有一次在瑞典度假, 我发现我的车上有这样一个字条 : “先生, 欢迎您光临我们的城市. 此处是‘禁止停车’区. 如果您对我们街上的标牌稍加注意, 您在此会过得很愉快的. 
谨此提请注意. “如果你收到这样的恳求, 你是不会不遵照执行的! 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	If you park your car in the wrong place, a traffic policeman will soon find it. 英语中指每个人/任何人的不定代词通常是 one，但在日常会话中，非正式的 you 更为常用。
One can never know what will happen tomorrow. 一个人永远不会知道明天将会发生什么事。 
If you make a journey around the world, you’ll see many beauty spots. 如果你进行一次环球旅行的话，你就会看到许多风景胜地。 
 
in the wrong place 	不合适的地方 wrong 	adj. 不合适的, 	right 	adj. 合适的 
He is the right person who you are looking for. 
They met(A met B)in the wrong place at the wrong time. You met the wrong person in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
 
2、	You will be very lucky if he lets you go without a ticket. let (sb.) go 放开，释放，使自由，让（某人）去 
	The man won’t let go (of) my arm. 	那人抓住我的胳膊不放。 
He is very angry now. He won’t let you go easily. without a ticket=without giving you a ticket 
If 引导的叫条件句, without 后面的名词也叫条件 without+n. 如果没有…… 
Without water,fish cannot live. 
 
3、	However, this does not always happen. 
however=but 然而，however 常常放在句首或句子中都可以，but 习惯放在两个句子之间；but 转折性 
语义比较强，however 转折语义比较弱 
 
4、	During a holiday in Sweden, I found this note on my car: 'sir, we welcome you to our city. This is a "No 
Parking" area. You will enjoy your stay here if you pay attention to our street signs. This note is only a reminder.' on my car 	指车的外面 welcome sb. to+地点 欢迎某人来某地 enjoy 	v. 享受 
	I have enjoyed my stay here. 	我已经在这儿很快乐了 
	Enjoy your stay here. 	祝你玩得开心 
only a reminder==not a ticket 
“No Parking”在句中作area 的定语，由若干个词合成的词组型定语有： a never-to-be-forgotten day 一个永远也不能忘掉的日子 a well-to-do family 一个富裕的家庭 
 
【Key structures】 
条件句（Conditional sentences） 
if 引导的条件从句指能够发生、可能发生或可能发生过的事件。如果认为将来的事件很可能会发生， 那么 if 从句中要用一般现在时（有时也用其他形式的现在时），主句中用 will（或 shall）加动词形式或其他形式的将来时。 
If he is sleeping,don't wake him up. 
条件句的主句中的 will 表示肯定如此或几乎可以肯定会如此。如果觉得其“肯定”程度达不到使用 will 
的程度，或者如果想表达建议等其他意思，就可以用别的情态助动词来代替  will；条件句中的主句还可以用祈使语气等表示请求、建议等。 
You can post these letters if you want to. 
If it’s fine tomorrow, we can/may go out. 
Please let me know if you cant’t come. 
 
Exercises C 
5  If he _______(enjoy) concerts, why doesn't he come with us? 
5.enjoys, why doesn't 跟第三人称连用, 是一种建议; why not 连在一起表示建议 
 
【Special Difficulties】 Police and Traffic Police traffic police 交通警 police 	n. 警察 
①	n. 警察部门，警方（与 the 连用） 
Ring the police if there is a burglary. 如果发生入户盗窃就给警方打电话。 
②	警察（复数） 
The police are questioning a foreign tourist. 警察们正在盘问一名外国游客。 
③	如果要单指一名警察，可以用 policeman 或 policewoman 
There is a traffic policeman over there. You can ask him the way to the station. 
 
Pay attention to,Care,Take care of,Look after 
	pay attention to 	（思想上）注意 
	pay attention (to sth.) 	注意…… 
notice （眼睛上的）注意 care 关心, 在意 
	I don't care. 	我不在乎。 
	Who cares？ 	我不在乎(谁在乎!) 
I don’t care if he breaks his neck! 他就是折断颈骨，我也不在乎！ take care of==look after 照顾, 照料 
Please take care of/look after the children for me when I am out. 
 
Remind and Remember remind 	v. 提醒 remind sb. of sth., remind sb. to do sth. 
I reminded him to post my letter. remember v. 记起, 记得 
	Do you remember? 	你想起来了吗? remember sth. 
Remember? 	记得吗?(可以单独用) remember to do sth. 	记得要去做…… 
Remember to send the letter. 
	remember doing sth. 	记得已经做了 
I remembered sending the letter. 
remember sb. to sb. 前者向后者表示问候 
Remember me to your mother. 代我向你母亲问好 
 
Exercise (选择正确的词) 
 
1 You can only learn if you(look after)(pay attention). 只有当你注意的时候, 你才会学到东西. pay attention 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
1 Traffic police are _ a_ . 
	a. occasionally very polite 	b. never very polite 
c. always very polite 	 	d. seldom very polite seldom =hardly 很少(否定意思)，相当于 “not” occasionally=sometimes 	偶尔 hardly 	几乎不(否定意思) 
I'hardly went there.  
6‘No Parking’means _ a_ . 
	a. don't leave your car here 	b. without parking 
c. don't stop 	d. there's no room to park here park 	v. 停放(侧重放) stop 	v. 让运动中的东西停下来 leave 	v. 离开, 留下来, 丢在某地(一定要加宾语和地点) leave sth. here 
I left keys at home. I left my wallet in the taxi.  
7 This note is only a reminder. It's ___d_ . 
a. nothing 	b. no one 	c. nothing extra 	d. nothing more nothing 是不定代词，不定代词的修饰词, 要放在不定代词的后面 anything important 	重要的事情 It is nothing. 	他什么都不是. 
extra 做定语时，一定要放在被修饰词前面，如 one extra thousand；而 more 可以放在被修饰词前面或后面，如 two more.../...more nothing extra : × ； nothing more : √ 
9 You will enjoy your stay. It will ___d___ you. 
a.amus 	b.enjoy 	c.laugh at 	d.please enjoy 的典型用法是“主语从宾语身上得到享受” laugh at(sb.) 	嘲笑某人 amuse(sb.) 让某人笑出来 please(sb.) 让某人高兴; 取悦 
可以直接加人的动词：shock，surprise，amuse，please，worry，其共同特征是和人的感觉相连 be worried about 	为……担心 
I am worried about my house. 
My house worries me. 我的房子让我担心. 