
 
	Lesson 78 	The last one? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（12） 
entitle 	v. 以……为名 
calm 	v. 使镇定 
nerve 	n. 神经 
concentration 	n. 集中，专心 
suffer 	v.  受苦，受害 
symptom 	n. 症状 
temper 	n. 脾气 
appetite 	n. 胃口，食欲 
produce 	v. 拿出 
urge 	v.  力劝，怂恿 
satisfaction 	n. 满意，满足 
delighted 
 	adj. 欣喜的 
★	entitle vt. 以……为名,取名，给……题名, 给……称号；v. 授权, 授权 entitle + 宾 语 + sth. 给……题名为…… 
The writer hasn’t entitled his new book yet. The book was entitled The Sun Also Rises. call sb. sth. name sb. sth. 
 
★	calm 	v. 使镇定 calm down 	镇定下来  
★	nerve n. 神经 lose one's nerve 失去勇气 
I lost my nerve. 
nervous adj. 神经紧张的 mental disorder 神经病  
★	concentration 	n. 集中，专心 concentrate 	v. 专心 concentrate on doing sth. 	集中精力做某事 concentrate on learning English 
 
★	suffer 	v. 受苦，受害 
①	vi. 受痛苦，爱苦难；患病 
During this time, my wife suffered terribly. What is the patient suffering from? 
②	vt. 遭受（痛苦、损害等） 
 
The village suffered serious damage from the floods. 
Many people are suffering cold and hunger in that district. 
 
★	temper n. 脾气 keep one's temper 别发火 lose one's temper 发火 
Since his illness, he always loses his temper. 
名词 + ed 为形容词： 
hot-tempered 脾气火爆 ；good-tempered 好脾气的 ；bad-tempered 坏脾气的  
★	appetite n. 胃口，食欲 appetite for sth. 关于……的食欲 （appetite 表示的胃口仅对食物而言） 
I have good appetite for the ice cream. 我很想吃冰淇淋 to one's taste 对某人的胃口 
This book is not to my taste. 
 
★	produce 	v. 拿出 produce=take 
 
★	urge v. 力劝，怂恿 urge sb. to do sth. 怂恿某人做…… persuade sb. to do sth. 说服/劝说某人做某事  
★	satisfaction 	n. 满意，满足 satisfactory 	adj. 令人满意的  
★	delighted 	adj. 感到高兴的，欣喜的 delight 	n. 欣喜，高兴 
delight +人 让某人高兴 
	glad/happy/pleased 	感到高兴的 
I'm glad/happy/pleased. glad 是一种客套的话 
Glad to hear that. 
happy 是相对稳定的一种快乐 
He is a happy man. 
pleased 高兴的，含有很满足的概念 
I'm pleased. 
delighted 突如其来的事情让人感到的开心 
I'm delighted. 
 
【Text】 
After reading an article entitled 'Cigarette Smoking and Your Health' I lit a cigarette to calm my nerves. I smoked with concentration and pleasure as I was sure that this would be my last 
 
cigarette. For a whole week I did not smoke at all and during this time, my wife suffered terribly. I had all the usual symptoms of someone giving up smoking: a bad temper and an enormous appetite. My friends kept on offering me cigarettes and cigars. They made no effort to hide their amusement whenever I produced a packet of sweets from my pocket. After seven days of this I went to a party. Everybody around me was smoking and I felt extremely uncomfortable. When my old friend Brian urged me to accept a cigarette, it was more than I could bear. I took one guiltily, lit it and smoked with satisfaction. My wife was delighted that things had returned to normal once more. Anyway, as Brian pointed out, it is the easiest thing in the world to give up smoking. He himself has done it lots of times! 
 
参考译文读完一篇题为《吸烟与健康》的文章之后，我点上了一枝香烟，来镇定一下自己紧张的神经。我聚精   
会神而又愉快地吸着这枝烟。因为我确信这是我最后一枝烟了。整整一个星期我根本没有吸烟。在此期间，  我妻子吃尽了苦头。我具备了戒烟者通常表现出来的所有症状：脾气暴躁和食欲旺盛。我的朋友们不断地   向我递香烟和雪茄。每当我从口袋里掏出一包糖果时，他们都毫不掩饰地表现出他们对此感到非常好笑。   这样过了 7 天以后，我去参加一次聚会。我周围的每个人都在吸烟，我感到非常不自在。当我的老朋友布赖恩极力劝我接受一枝香烟时，我再也忍不住了。我内疚地接过一枝点上，心满意足地抽起来。一切又都   恢复了正常，为此我妻子十分高兴。不管怎么说，正如布赖恩指出的那样，戒烟是世界上最容易的事情，   他自己就已戒了很多次了！ 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、After reading an article entitled 'Cigarette Smoking and Your Health' I lit a cigarette to calm my nerves. an article entitled 题名为……的文章 
在英语中，文章名与书名中的每个单词的第一个字母均大写，不在开头位置的连词、冠词、小品词除 
外。 
lit （light，light） v. 点燃 
I lit a cigarette. 
	lighted 	adj. 被点燃的 
This is a lighted cigarette. 
 
2、	My friends kept on offering cigarettes and cigars. 
	keep on doing sth. = continue doing sth. 	持续不断的做 
The child was crying loudly, but he kept on watching TV. cigar 	n. 雪茄 offer sb. sth. 	给某人某物  
3、	They made no effort to hide their amusement whenever I produced a packet of sweets from my pocket. make every effort 尽全力，尽一切努力 
He made every effort to get/at getting the job. 
make no effort 根本不作努力，毫不费力 make no effort to persuade him 
 
	She wrote the letter with/without effort. 	她费力/毫不费力地写了那封信。 
make effort + to do sth. 	努力做…… no matter when = whenever  无论何时 no matter who = whoever 	 无论是谁 no matter where = wherever 	无论在哪里 no matter how 	无论怎样  
4、	When my old friend Brian urged me to accept a cigarette, it was more than I could bear. was more than I could bear = I couldn't bear 
more than 后面跟一个从句或一个形容词时可以表示“超出”（多用于口语）： 
He was more than pleased with his new room. This was more than I had expectd. 
 
5、	Anyway, as Brian pointed out, it is the easiest thing in the world to give up smoking. anyway 	不管如何 
Anyway I love him. 
Thank you anyway. 
	point out = explain 	指出，指明 
Why didn’t you point out his mistake to him at that time? He pointed out that we still had to get a few other things. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 
与 keep 有关的短语动词 keep on +doing sth. 反复，持续 
My friends kept on offering me cigarettes. 
	He kept on saying that he was tired. 	他不断地说他累了。 
	keep off 	不靠近，从……离开 
	Keep off the flower bed. 	请勿进入花坛。 
Keep your hands off the food. 别动吃的东西。 keep away from （使……）不靠近，避开 
Why do you always keep away from me? 你为什么总躲着我？ Keep the children away from the river. 别让孩子们去河边。 
	keep it up 	不松劲，保持成绩，继续下去 
	You've made much progress. Keep it up! 	你已取得了很大进步。继续努力！ 
If you keep it up, you'll be able to set up a new world record. 你如果保持下去／不松劲，你就能创一项新的世界纪录。 keep up with 	跟上，不落在……后面 
Although he walked as fast as he could, he still couldn't keep up with his father. 虽然他尽快走，但他仍跟不上他父亲。 
In order to keep up with his classmates, he worked harder than ever. 为了跟上同学，他比以往任何时候都更努力。 keep out 	（使）留在外面，（使）不进入 
He shut all the doors and windows to keep out the wind. 为了挡风，他关上了所有的门窗。 16,000-volt power line. Keep out! 16,000 伏高压线，不可靠近！ keep in （把……）留在里面／关在屋里，不出外 
	It's very cold today. We'd better keep in. 	今天很冷。我们最好别出去。 
	When the dog was kept in, it barked loudly. 	那条狗被关在屋里时狂吠不止。  