
 
	Lesson 50 	Taken for a ride 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（4） 
ride 	n. 旅行 
excursion 	n. 远足 
conductor 	n. 售票员 
view 	n. 景色 
 
★	ride 	n.  旅行（不走路的）；v.  骑(车,  马) 
trip n.（出差性的）旅行（旅行地方不远或呆的时间不长） travel n.（周游世界性的）旅行 journey  n.（陆地上的）旅行 flight n.（空中）旅行 voyage n.（海上）旅行 tour n. 游玩 sightseeing n. 观光游  
★	excursion 	n. 远足，游玩, 郊游(距离不会很远) weekend's excursion 	周末游 a day's excursion 	一日游 
Tomorrow we will have a day's excursion. 
 
★	view 	n. 景色(主观性较强) 
in one's view＝in one's opinion 就某人看来 sight n. 景色, 视线, 视野(强调客观) 
Can I have a room with a good view? 
 
【Text】 
I love travelling in the country, but I don't like losing my way. 
I went on an excursion recently, but my trip took me longer than I expected. 
'I'm going to Woodford Green,' I said to the conductor as I got on the bus, 'but I don't know where it is.' 'I'll tell you where to get off.' answered the conductor. 
I sat in the front of the bus to get a good view of the countryside. After some time, the bus stopped. Looking round, I realized with a shock that I was the only passenger left on the bus. 'You'll have to get off here,' the conductor said. 'This is as far as we go.' 'Is this Woodford Green?' I asked. 
'Oh dear,' said the conductor suddenly. 'I forgot to put you off.' 
'It doesn't matter,' I said. 'I'll get off here.' 
'We're going back now,' said the conductor. 
'Well, in that case, I prefer to stay on the bus,' I answered. 
 
参考译文 
我喜欢在乡间旅行, 但却不愿意迷路. 最近我作了一次短途旅行, 但这次旅行所花费的时间比我预计的要长. 
“我要去伍德福德草地, “我一上车就对售票员说, “但我不知道它在哪儿. 
“ “我来告诉您在哪儿下车, “售票员回答说. 
我坐在汽车的前部, 以便饱览农村风光. 过了一些时候, 车停了. 我环视了一下身旁, 惊奇地发现车里 
就只剩我一个乘客了. 
“您得在这里下车, “售票员说, “我们的车就到此为止了. 
“ “这里是伍德福德草地吗？” 我问道. “哎呀, “售票员突然说, “我忘了让您下车了. “ “没关系, “我说, “我就在这儿下吧. 
“ “我们现在要返回去, “售票员说. “好吧, 既然如此, 我还是留在车上吧. “我回答说. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Taken for a ride 
	take…for… 	把……当作…… 
taken for a ride 就当作是一次兜风 take sb. for a ride 欺骗 taken for 上当了  
2、I love travelling in the country, but I don't like losing my way. love/ like doing sth. 喜欢做某事（强调一种习惯） 
I love my brother, but I don't like his girlfriend. 
I love having dinner with you, but I don't like paying for dinner. lose one’s way 迷路 
 
3、I went on an excursion recently, but my trip took me longer than I expected. 
go on an excursion  ＝have an excursion 	作一次短距离的旅行 go on 	进行，为（某一目的）而去 
I’ll go on holiday next month. 
Did you go on a trip last month? 
	take sb. some time 	花费某人多少时间 
My trip took me a long time. 
	It takes sb. some time to do sth. 	花费某人多少时间 
It took me a month to learn book 2. 
It takes sb. some time that… 	花费某人多少时间 sb. spend some time (on) doing sth. 
I spent a month learning English. 
sb. spend some time on sth. 金钱上的花费 cost, pay for sth. 
	than I expected 	比我所预料的（口语） 
The question is easier than I expected. 
 
You are more beautiful than I expected. 
You are better than I expected. 
The holiday took you longer than I expected. 
	than I thought 	比我原以为的 
The English class took me longer than I thought. 
 
4、	'but I don't know where it is.' 
where it is 注意单词的连读，音标以元音音标结尾，字母以“re”或“er”结尾的，会与下一个元音
之间加“r”这个音。 
 
5、	'I'll tell you where to get off.' answered the conductor. get on the bus 上 车 ；get off the bus 下 车 
I will tell you where you can (should) get off. 
No one got on/off (the bus) at the last bus stop. 
“特殊疑问词+to+动词原形”可用来取代宾语从句 
Can you tell me how I can get there? =Can you tell me how to get there? 
Can you tell me what I should do ? =Can you tell me what to do? 
I don't know which to choose. 
I wonder when to have a meeting. 
Can you tell me how to begin a letter? 
 
【语法精粹】 
1 、 Did you find out c the pie out of oven? 
a. to take 	 	b. have taken 	c. when to take 	d. being taken find out 	发现 take sth. out of 	取出来 
Did you find out when we could(can)take the pie out of oven? 你发现什么时候才能把馅饼从烤箱中拿出来了吗? 
 
6、I sat in the front of the bus to get a good view of the countryside. 
	in the front of 	在（某一事物的）前部，前者属于后者的范围 
The teacher stands in the front of the classroom. 
	in front of 	在……前面，前者不属于后者的范围 
The teacher stands in front of the students. get a good view of 	欣赏……的美景 
I stood at the window to get a good view of the city.  
7、	Looking round, I realized with a shock that I was the only passenger left on the bus. 
非谓语动词（现在分词或过去分词）做状语, 这个动作必然与主句主语有关：－ing 与主句主语构成主 
动关系；－ed 与主句主语构成被动关系；to do 与主句主语构成目的关系 
如果非谓语动词做定语, 只与被修饰词相关, 与主语无关 
passing plain 路过的飞机； ploughed field 耕过的地如果-ing/-ed 做宾补, 与宾语有关 
 
I find the door locked. （locked 被动，门被锁） 
	with+ n. 	表示状态 
I do sth with an excitement. 
left 放在被修饰词之后 
on the bus = in the bus 在火车上、汽车上既可以用“in”又可用“on” 
 
8、	'This is as far as we go.' 
as far as + 从句 	到……程度/限度，就……的限度而言 as far as we go＝we couldn't go any more This is as far as I can do. 
I can't bear(it any more). / It was more than I could bear. 
= This is as far as I bear. 
This is as far as I can understand. 
This is as far as I can afford. 我只能付这么多钱
As far as I now, they haven’t returned from abroad. This is as far as I can help you. 
 
9、'Oh dear,' said the conductor suddenly. 'I forgot to put you off.' 
oh dear 哦, 天呐 forget to do sth. 忘记去做某事 
I forget to shut the door. 我忘了锁门 forget doing sth. 忘记已经做了什么事 
I forget shutting the door. 我忘了门已经锁了 put sb. off 让……下车（或飞机、船等） 
put sb. off  ＝remind sb. to do 提醒（某人）…… put sb. off 推脱, 敷衍 
My son always asks me to take him up. I always put him off. 
	put sth. off 	推迟, 延期 
put off the meeting，put off the appointment  
10、'Well, in that case, I prefer to stay on the bus,' I answered. 
	in that(this) case 	如果那样（这样）的话，既然是那样（这样） 
Is he one of your best friends? In that/this case, you may invite him. prefer to do sth. 宁可做某事 
	prefer to do…rather than… 	宁可……也不…… 
 
【letter writing】 
给朋友写信要称呼他们的名字，如“亲爱的弗雷德”，决不要以“亲爱的朋友”类的词语开头。给亲戚写信，则可以这样开头：亲爱的妈妈、亲爱的爸爸、亲爱的弗雷德叔叔、亲爱的艾丽丝姨妈， 
但决不可称“亲爱的表兄”，或“亲爱的弗雷德表兄”。给长辈写信，长辈中的直系亲属不加名字，只加称谓；长辈中的旁系亲属既要加称谓，又要加名字。  给平辈的亲属写信，直接称呼名字，不加称谓。 
 
【Summry writing】 
1 Where did the writer want to go? Did he know the way or not? What did the conductor promise to do? 
(but as) 
“but as” 并不是并列短语, 两者连在一起仅仅是巧合 
The writer wanted to go to Woodfast Green but as he did not know the way, the conductor promised to tell him where to get off. 
第一句和第二句之间是 “but” 关系, 第二句和第三句之间为 “as” 关系, 所以产生 “but as” 
 
【Key structures】 	 
表示习惯性动作 
表示状态、感觉、情绪、精神活动的动词 appear，appreciate，believe，feel，forget，hear，know，like， look，notice，remember，resemble，see，think，understand，belong to，consist of，contain，desire，detest， dislike，hate，hope，love，matter，mean，mind，need，want，wish 常用于一般现在时而不用于进行时 
 
【Special Difficulties】 Lose, Loose, Miss. 
	lose 	vt. 失去，丧失，遗失，丢失 
Roy has lost his job again. 
She lost her parents when she was sixteen. 
If you bet on that horse you will lose your money.    （bet on sth 就……打赌） 
	loose 	adj. 松动的，松的，松开的 
Servral screws have come loose. （come loose，松了（系动词+adj.）） 
The handle of this suitcase is very / has come loose. 
	miss 	v.  怀念,  思念,  错过，未能……，缺（课等），惦念，想念 
Hurry or you’ll miss the train. I missed my English lesson. missing 	adj. 不见了的 sth. is lost = sth. is missing 
	missing boy 	失踪了的孩子(不能用 “lost” ) 
 
Expect, Wait for 
expect  可以表示“预计……可能发生（或来到），等待，期盼”，它表示等待时往往侧重人的心理而不
是具体在某个地方等。 
I expect / I’m expecting to hear from you. 
I’m expecting the bus to arrive in the next ten minutes. My trip took me longer than I expected. wait for 主要指“等待”这个动作本身。 
I’m waiting for the next bus. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4 The trip took him longer than he expected. He didn't expect it to last ___c___. 
a. longer  	b. as long 	c. so long 	d. such a long last 	v. 延续 
 for a long time = long I have waited for you for a long time = I have waited for you long. 
 
5‘Where ___c___ get off?’I asked.‘I'll tell you where to get off,’answered the conductor. 
	a. to 	b. for 	c. shall I 	d. in order to 
但在日常口语中语法概念很弱,如“What to do？”也常常使用, 不符合语法, 但在写作时语法概念要很强. 
 
7 This is as far as we go. We don't go ___a___. 
a. any further b. more far c. further more d. so far not any more = not any longer = not any further 不再…… further more 更进一步, 更有甚者的是 
 
 
9 The writer got on the bus, but he didn't know where to ___b_ . 
	a. get down 	b. get off 	c. get out of 	d. get over 
下某种交通工具, 一定要用 get off get down: 如吃完饭后, 下桌子时会用 get down（不会和下车相连） 
After dinner, I got down. 我吃完饭后, 离开了桌子. get out of + 地方 	从……地方出去 get over 	恢复  
12 I prefer to stay on the bus. That's ___d___. 
	a. my favourite 	 	b. my best 	c. beloved 	d. what I'd like to do best 
	I’d like to do… 	我愿意做某事 
What I’d like to do best. 我最想要做的事 
	I like sth. best. 	我最喜欢的事 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
] 