
 
	Lesson 41 	Do you call that a hat? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（6） rude 	adj. 无礼的 mirror 	n. 镜子 hole 	n. 孔 
remark v.  评说 remind v.  提醒 lighthouse n. 灯塔  
★ rude adj. 无礼的（强调故意的） impolite adj. 不礼貌，表示没有注意到礼节性的问题, 所以显得有些不礼貌（polite 的反义词，以 
p 开头的形容词的否定前缀为 im） cheeky 	adj. 无礼, 没礼貌的（表示小孩对长辈） 
	Don’t be cheeky! 	不得无礼! 
	naive 	adj. 天真的 
 
★	mirror 	n. 镜子 
look at oneself in the mirror 	照镜子 look up sth. in the dictionary 	查字典 
mirrot of… ……的写照，……的真实反映 
	His novel is a mirror of his time. 	他的小说就是他那个时代的真实写照 
 
★	hole 	n. 孔 
hole in+地点 ……（地方）有个洞 
 
★	remark v. 评说 remark 主要指说, 当 say 来理解 
 
★	remind 	v. 提醒 ① vt. 提醒 
remind sb. of sth. / remind sb. to do sth. / remind sb. that… 提醒某人做某事 He reminded his wife that they needed to buy some coffee and sugar. 
② vt. 使……想起 
The smell of cabbage reminds me of school. 卷心菜的气味使我想起了学校。 
She reminds me of her sister. 
	reminder 	n. 提醒物 
【Text】 
'Do you call that a hat?' I said to my wife. 
'You needn't be so rude about it,' my wife answered as she looked at herself in the mirror. 
I sat down on one of those modern chairs with holes in it and waited. We had been in the hat shop for half an hour and my wife was still in front of the mirror. 
'We mustn't buy things we don't need,' I remarked suddenly. I regretted saying it almost at once. 
'You needn't have said that,' my wife answered. 'I needn't remind you of that terrible tie you bought yesterday.' 'I find it beautiful,' I said. 'A man can never have too many ties.' 'And a woman can't have too many hats,' she answered. 
Ten minutes later we walked out of the shop together. My wife was wearing a hat that looked like a lighthouse! 
 
参考译文 
“你把那个叫帽子吗?” 我对妻子说. 
“你说话没必要这样不客气, “我的妻子边回答边照着镜子. 
我坐在一个新式的满是网眼儿的椅子上, 等待着. 我们在这家帽店已经呆了半个小时了, 而我的妻子 
仍在镜子面前. 
“我们不应该买我们不需要的东西, “我突然发表意见说, 但马上又后悔说了这话. 
“你没必要这么说, “我妻子回答说, “我也不必提醒你昨天买的那条糟糕透了的领带. 
“ “我觉得它好看, “我说, “男人有多少领带也不会嫌多. “ “女人有多少帽子也不嫌多. “她回答. 
10 分钟以后, 我们一道走出了商店. 我妻子戴着一顶像灯塔一样的帽子. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	Do you call that a hat? 
“Do you call that +（冠词）+名词”这个结构可以表达一种轻蔑的含义： Do you call that a house/a dog? 你把那个叫房子/狗吗？ 
 
2、	You needn't be so rude about it. 
be rude about sth. 	对事很粗鲁 be rude to sb. 	对人很粗鲁 
Don't be rude to me. 别对我这么粗鲁 
 
3、I sat down on one of those modern chairs with holes in it and waited. 
on the chair 在椅子上 with holes in it 作定语 Jane put a piece of paper with her name and address on it into a bottle. 
 
4、We had been in the hat shop for half an hour and my wife was still in front of the mirror. 名词修饰名词, 一般用单数：bookstore 书店，drugstore 药店, 
 
5、I regretted saying it almost at once. 
	regret doing sth./名词/that 从句 	后悔已经做了某事，表示对做过的事感到遗憾 
Did he regret his mistake? 
I now regret leaving my country/that I have left my country. 
regret to do sth. 表示对现在或将来要做的事感到对不起、遗憾，比 be sorry to do sth.要正式： We regret to tell you that you are not welcome. 我很遗憾地告诉您，您不受欢迎。 
 
6 、 'You needn't have said that,' my wife answered. 'I needn't remind you of that terrible tie you bought yesterday.' 
	needn't have done 	原本不必做, 但是做了, 强调过去的动作不必做 
	You needn't have bought it. 	你原本不必买的 
	You needn’t have come. 	你原本不必来的。 
	needn't do 	现在的动作也不必做 
You needn’t come. 你不必来。 remind sb. of sth. 提醒某人想起某事  
7、'I find it beautiful,' I said. 
动词 find 经常用于“动词+宾语+宾语补足语”这种结构： 
You’ll find it difficult/easy to make conversation with her. I find this book very interesting. 
 
8、A man can never have too many ties. 
	can never…too…＝cannot…too… 	无论……也不为过 
A man can never have too many ties. 再多的领带对一个男人来说也不为过（男人有多少领带也不会嫌多）。 
	I can never thank you too much. 	感激不尽。 
	Drinking water can never be too clean. 	饮用水越干净越好。 
	A wife can never complain too much. 	妻子怎么罗嗦也不为过。 
	You can’t be too careful in doing your work. 	你工作越小心越好。 
 
【Key structures】 
Must, Have (got) to and Need 
情态动词 must（必须，不得不）的否定式 mustn't（不能、不准），must 还可用于表示推测： 
①	对现在和将来的推测：must +动词用原形 
②	对正在发生的事情的推测：must be doing 
③	对过去的推测：must have done 
④	对过去正在发生的事情的推测：must have been doing 
用 must 的一般疑问句可以用 must/have to 或 needn’t 来回答，而不用 mustn’t： 
Must I set off now? 
Yes, you must / have to. 
No, you needn’t. 
mustn’t 表示绝对禁止，在说话人看来，根本没选择余地： 
You mustn’t use that bicycle. It’s broken. 
“不必要”可用 needn’t，don’t have to 来表示： 
needn’t = don’t have to 
needn’t have done = didn’t have to 
You needn’t / don’t have to work such long hours. 
英语中的 need 有两种词性，一个是普通动词（需要），一种是情态动词。need 的否定形式对应也有两种： needn't  不必（情态动词 need 的否定）； don't need  不需要（普通动词 need 的否定）。 
need I...?(情态) / do I need...? 实义动词 
在实义动词后面再加一个实义动词, 就在后面加 to do 
	Need I go out? = Do I need to go out? 	我需要出去吗? 
You needn’t have told me that. I know it is. 
情态动词后面不能直接用名词做宾语，实义动词后面可以直接加名词, 故 need 后面如是名词, 则这个 need 为实义动词例 : He c follow me . 
a doesn’t need 	b needn’t to 	c didn’t need to 	d needs 情态动词 need 后接动词原形，但只用于否定和疑问句，肯定句用 must，have to，ought to 或 should。 need 用于疑问句时，问者往往希望得到否定的回答： 
Need you leave so soon? 你有必要这么早就走吗？用 need 的一般疑问句的肯定形式的回答可以用 must/had to，否定形式的回答可以用 needn’t： 
Need I type this letter again? 
Yes, you must. / No, you needn’t. 
Need you have told him about my plans? 
Yes, I had to. / No, I needn’t have. 
表示必要时，must 的语气比need 要强： 
I must go to the dentist this moring. 
这种句型可用来表示说话人让对方选择或允许对方可以不做某事的主观意图。它的完成式和过去式分别为 needn’t have，didn’t have to 和 didn’t need to： 
I needn’t have gone to the office yesterday. 
I didn’t have to / didn’t need to go to the office yesterday. need doing sth. 	需要被做（用主动表达被动含义） 
①	这里 need 属于实义动词, 动词 ing 相当于名词来理解 
②	有时态和人称变化,否定式为: don’t need doing 
③	need doing 表达被动含义, 如: Your shoes need washing. 你的鞋子需(被)洗了 
另外 want doing 也是用主动表示被动含义，它们的主语一定是物, 不是人 
Your hair needs cuting. 
need to be done---主语是人,也可以是物
The child need to be … 
 
对比 mustn't 和 needn't： 
You musn’t read it bed. It’s bad for your eyes. 
	（be bad for… 	对……有害） 
	Smoking is bad for your health. 	抽烟有害你的健康 
You mustn't make a noise. The children are asleep. 你不应吵闹, 孩子们都睡了. You needn't drive so quickly. We have plenty of time. 你不必开得那么快, 我们有足够的时间. 
=You don't have to(haven't got to) drive so quickly. We have plenty of time. 
 
You mustn't smoke in a theatre. It is forbidden. 你不应该在剧场里抽烟, 这是不允许的. 
You needn't come with us if you don't want to. 如果你不想去, 你不必和我们一道去. 
=You don't have to (haven't got to) come with us if you don't want to. 
 
【Special  Difficulties】Remark, Observe and Notice 
remark 与 observe 都可以表示“说，评论说”，它们比 say 要正式： 
‘You’re looking very well!’She remarked/observed. 
notice 和 observe 都可以表示“注意到，察觉到”，但有一定区别。notice 指无意中“察觉到”；observe 
则可以指有意观察、仔细地看，比 notice 更正式： 
He observed me carefully. (He looked at me.) 他仔细地看着我. 
Did you notice how she was dressed? 你注意到她的穿戴了吗? 
I’ve noticed/observed that he telephones her oftener than before. 我发现/注意到他现在给她打电话比以前次数多了。 
I didn’t notice his leaving. 
make rude remark / call one's name / say F words (F 指 fuck) 讲粗话，骂人 He made a lot of rude remarks about the hat she was wearing. fail to do sth. 没有能够 
not fail to 表示强烈地肯定 
I had changed the furniture round that you can not fail to notict it. 我已经把周围的家具都换了。 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
3 Do you have to buy this hat? No, I___c___. It isn't necessary. 
	a. mustn't 	b. won't 	c. needn't 	d. don't need 
Do you have to...? 
Yes, I do … / No, I don't … / No,I don't have to do sth. 
mustn't 不准 
don't have to 不 必 =needn’t must＝have to 必须 
英文中要么助动词之后所有的东西都省略, 要么省到不定式标志, “don’t need to” 也对 
Would you like to do sth? 
Yes, I'd like to. / No,I don't / No,I don't need to. (to 不能省略) Do you want to go to school? 	Yes,I do. / Yes,I want to. 
Would you like to see the menu?  Yes, I'd like to. (后接动词) Would you like some bananas? Yes, I’d like. (后接名词) Do you need the hat? 
No, I don’t need. （不能为“I needn’t”，情态动词不能直接接名词“hat”） 
 
7 A man can never have too many ties. It's ___b___. 
a. unable b. impossible c. improbable d. incapable can never ＝can't 不可能 
	be able/unable to do sth. (unable 	adj.不能的, 不会的) 
 
impossible 不可能 improbable 不太可能 probably 很有可能 incapable adj.无能力的, 不能的 be capable of / be incapable of  
8 She looked in the mirror and saw her _ a_ . 
	a. reflection 	b. idol 	c. imagination 	d. picture 
reflection n.反射, 映象, 倒影, 反省, 沉思, 反映（reflect v. 发射） idol n.偶像, 崇拜物, 幻象, [逻]谬论 imagination n.想象, 空想, 想象的事物, 想象力, 听觉 picture n. 照片, 图象  
11 His wife was wearing a hat. She _ c_ . 
a. was dressing it 	b. was putting it on 	c. had it on 	d.was carrying it wear/dress/put on/have on 穿 
wear 穿着（强调状态） dress sb. 给某人穿衣服（强调动作） put on 穿上（强调动作） 
have sth. on 穿着（强调状态) (have……on 让……东西在……上面 ) in a green coat 
She is in a green coat. be in+衣服(状态) 
 
12 It looked like a lighthouse. It ___b_ a lighthouse. 
	a. appeared similar 	b. resembled 	c. matched 	d.likened 
match 与……相配 liken vt.把……比作 
compare/liken sth to another thing 把前者比作后者 
We liken the hat to a lighthouse. resemble vt. 象, 类似 a resemble b 
appear 显 得 
It appeared similar to a lighthouse. similar 与……相似 
be similar to (to 不能少) 