
 
	Lesson 66 	Sweet as honey! 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（20） 
Lancaster 	n. 兰开斯特 
bomber 	n. 轰炸机 
remote 	adj. 偏僻的 
Pacific 	n. 太平洋 
damage 	v.  毁坏 
wreck 	n. 残骸 
rediscover 	v. 重新发现 
aerial 	adj. 航空的 
survey 	n. 调查 
rescue 	v. 营救（＝save） 
package 	v. 把……打包 
enthusiast 	n. 热心人 
restore 	v. 修复（修并且复原,如对艺术品的修复） 
imagine 	v.  想像 
packing case 	包装箱 
colony 	n. 群 
bee 	n. 蜂 
hive 	n. 蜂房 
preserve 	v.  保护 
beeswax 	n. 蜂蜡 
 
★	bomber 	n. 轰炸机, 炸弹手, 轰炸员, 投弹手 bomb 	n. 炸弹 
 
★	remote 	adj. 偏僻的，偏远的 remote village 	遥远的村庄 lonely 	adj. 偏僻的(孤零零的) lonely island 	孤岛 
 
★	Pacific 	n. 太平洋 
Atlantic 大西洋 ； Indian ocean 印度洋 ； Arctic ocean 北冰洋 
 
★	wreck n. 残骸 wreck 强调坏了没用的东西 (一个坏了的整体，完整的)；wrekage 强调坏成碎片的东西 
 
★	rediscover v. 重新发现 re-表示“再, 又”的意思，如review 复习，reread 再读，rewrite 改写，retell 复述等 ★ survey 	n. 调查(一定要跟数据有关系)  
 
aerial survey 	航空调查(跟数据有关系) 
investigation 
 	 	n. 调查，研究 
★ package 	v. 把……打包 
①	v. 把……打成大包 pack 	n. 小包；v. 把……打成小包 
Pack it for me. 
Wrap it up for me. 
②	n. 大包 
package deal 一揽子交易,一揽子交易中的条款 parcel n. 包裹(邮局邮寄) 
 
	★ imagine 	v. 想像 
① vt. 想像 
Imagine it. 想象一下吧! (口语) ② vt. 料想，猜想 imagine doing sth. 想象…… imagine that + 从句 想象…… 
I imagine you’re like to rest after your long journey. 
 
	★ colony 	n. 群, 殖民地 
colony 	n. 殖民地，侨民，(聚居的)一群同业，一批同行，(生物)群体 a colony of ants 一群蚂蚁 ；a colony of bees 一群蜜蜂； a colony of artists 	一群艺术家 
a flock of goats 	羊群 a herd of cows 	一群奶牛 
	a crowd of 	一群(用于人) 
 
★ preserve 	v. 保护，保存(经过特殊手段而保存下来) preserved bean curd 	豆腐乳 （bean curd 豆腐） preserved fruit 	果脯； preserved meat 腊肉； preserved fish 	腊鱼 smoked fish 	熏鱼 
	keep 	v. 保存，保持 
	Can I keep your photo? 	我能保存你的照片吗? 
How long can I keep it? 
Can I keep it for you? 
Store 	v. 储存，保存(以便日后使用) store the cabbage 
 
【Text】 
In 1963 a Lancaster bomber crashed on Wallis Island, a remote place in the South Pacific, a long way west of Samoa. The plane wasn't too badly damaged, but over the years, the crash was forgotten and the wreck remained undisturbed. Then in 1989, twenty-six years after the crash, 
 
the plane was accidentally rediscovered in an aerial survey of the island. By this time, a Lancaster bomber in reasonable condition was rare and worth rescuing. The French authorities had the plane packaged and moved in parts back to France. Now a group of enthusiasts are going to have the plane restored. It has four Rolls-Royce Merlin engines, but the group will need to have only three of them rebuilt. Imagine their surprise and delight when they broke open the packing cases and found that the fourth engine was sweet as honey -- still in perfect condition. A colony of bees had turned the engine into a hive and it was totally preserved in beeswax! 
 
参考译文 
1963 年, 一架兰开斯特轰炸机在瓦立斯岛坠毁. 那是南太平洋中一个很偏僻的小岛, 位于萨摩亚群岛以西, 距离群岛还有很长一段距离. 飞机损坏的程度并不严重, 但是, 多年来这起飞机失事已被遗忘, 飞机残骸也 没受到破坏. 于是, 到了 1989 年, 飞机失事 26 年后, 在对小岛的一次航空勘查中那架飞机被意外地发现了. 到了那个时候, 状况良好的兰开斯特轰炸机实属罕见, 值得抢救. 法国政府让人把飞机包装起来, 一部分一部分 地搬回法国. 一群热心人计划修复这架飞机. 该飞机装配有4 台罗尔斯-罗伊斯的默林发动机, 但是他们只需要修复其中的 3 台. 想一想他们所感受到的惊奇和兴奋——当他们拆开包装箱时, 他们发现第 4 台发动机就像蜂蜜一样甜——发动机完好无损. 一群蜜蜂把发动机当作了蜂房, 发动机在蜂蜡中被完整地保存了下来. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、In 1963 a Lancaster bomber crashed on Wallis Island, a remote place in the South Pacific, a long way west of Samoa. 
	crash 	vi. 从上往下掉 
	crash in the mountain 	掉到ft里 
a long way to go 有很长的路要走在英文中跟方位感相连的介词有三个 in, on, to in 隶属关系 
Haerbin’s in the north of China. on 是指跟一个地方有接触面 
Korea is on the north of China. to 是相离的概念 
Japan is to the east of China. 
west of＝to the west of （west of 前面没有任何词修饰的时候，认为处于相离的概念） 
 
2、	The plane wasn't too badly damaged, but over the years, the crash was forgotten and the wreck remained undisturbed. 
over 在……期间/之中（相当于 during，over 后如有数字则译为“超过”） over the years 这些年来 over the new year 在新年期间 ； over the Christmas 在圣诞期间 over Spring Festival 在春节期间 
He worked very hard over the last two years. 
	remain+adj. 	remain 看作系动词 be 理解 
	The room remained warm. 	房间还是那么暖和 
（注意与 “the room was warm.” 的区别, “remain” 有保持的意思） 
 
3、	By this time, a Lancaster bomber in reasonable condition was rare and worth rescuing. by this time 	到这时 in condition 处于……状态 
in reasonable condition＝in good condition 
in perfect condition  处于完美状态 in poor confition 状态不好 
Keep the house in good condition. 
reasonable 在这里表示“尚好的，过得去的”，用于表示价钱时，指“公道的，合理的，不贵的”等 
The house is in reasonable condition. The price of the dress is reasonable. 
	be worth doing sth. 	值得……，具有……的价值（表达了被动含义, 用主动ing 表达被动含义） 
The cake is worth eating. 
The books are worth reading. 
 
4、	The French authorities had the plane packaged and moved in parts back to France. have sth. done 让别人做某事 
in parts =little by little，bit by bit 	一部分一部分  
5、	Imagine their surprise and delight when they broke open the packing cases and found that the fourth engine was sweet as honey -- still in perfect condition. imagine 后面可以直接加宾语 
Imagine my excitement when I found my mother outside. 
Imagine their excitement and delight when the People’s Republic of China was founded. break sth. open 打开…… cut it open 剪开(信封) tear it open 撕开(信封) 
在固定短语中 as…as 中的第一个 as 可省略 
I am busy as a bee.  （as busy as a bee 中第一个 as 省略） 
sweet as honey  甜得象蜜 (在文中是双关语, 注意体会) sticky as glue 胶水一样粘 stong as horse 马一样强壮 
	turn…into… 	把……变成 
When it is cold enough, water is turnd into ice. 
 
【Key structures】 	 
使役式 
使役式：have +名词/宾语代词 +动词过去分词，使役式表示对某物（或某人）……。
	I have my wallet lost/stolen. 	我丢了钱包 
While I’m away, I’ll have you looked after. 我不在的时候，我会让人照顾你的。 
have sth. done 的另一个意思是“遭遇不幸” 
	I have my leg broken. 	我摔断了腿 
 
【Special difficulties】 
 
集合名词 
集合名词表示的是由若干个体组成的集合体，如 family（家庭，一家人），team（队），crew（船、飞机
等上的全体工作人员），audience（观众），government（政府），staff 全体职员/教员），class（班，班级）等。如果要强调作为整体的集体，则后面的动词用单数；如果要强调组成集体的每个人，则后面的动词用   复数。 
The national team is travelling to London tomorrow. 国家代表队将于明天去伦敦. The team are all highly talented young people. 全队人员都是天赋极高的年轻人. 
	The audience is made up of school children. 	观众是由学校的学生组成的. 
The audience were spellbound by the magic of the performance. 观众们被表演的魅力迷住了. 
My family are watching TV. 
My family is happy 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
6 Only three of the four Rolls Royce Merlin engines __a__rebuilt. (a) will have to be 	(b) need have been 	(c)are being 	(d)had to be 
情态动词 need 只用于否定句和疑问句中,要用在肯定句中肯定是实义动词 need to do 将来需要做 
 
10__d__the years that followed, the crash was forgotten. 
(a)Between 	(b)During 	(c)While 	(d)Among over the years = during the years 