
 
	Lesson 5 	No wrong numbers 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（7） 
pigeon n. 鸽子 message n. 信息 cover v.  越过 distance n. 距离 request n. 要求，请求 spare part 备件 
	service 	n. 业务，服务 
 
	★ pigeon 	n. 鸽子 	
It's not my pigeon. ＝None of my business. 
 
	★ message 	n. （口头或书面的）信息
Here is a message for you from your sister. an oral/written message  口信/便条 leave sb. a message 给……留便条 
I'll leave you a message. 
	take a message for sb. 	替某人捎口信 	不关我的事。 
	Can I take a message for you? 	我能替你捎个口信吗? 
	Can you take a message for me? 	 你能替我捎个口信吗? 
take a message to sb. 	给某人口信  
打电话 : 
Hello!--May I have a word with Tom ?/May I speak with/to Tom? --Can you take a message for me? information n.  信息（不可数） messenger n. 送信人，信使 
 
★ cover v. 越过；覆盖 
①	vt. 盖，覆盖 
Snow covered the whole village. 
She covered the child with a coat. 她给孩子盖了件外衣。 
②	vt.  行过（一段距离），走过（通常不用被动语态） cover+距离 越过…… 
You can cover the distance to the museum in ten minutes. 
③	n. 覆盖物，盖子，罩子，套子 
Put a cover on the box! 
 
★	distance n. 距 离 keep distance 保持距离 
 
distant 	adj.远距离的
Can I share this table? 
Can I join you? 	
importance    n. 重要 	important adj. 重要的 
difference n.  不同 	different adj. 不同的 
 
★	request 	n. 要求, 请求 
① n. 
	request for 	对……有请求, 有需求 
I have a request for the cake. 
He granted my request for more time. 他同意了我延长时间的请求。 
She sent a request for help to Gary. 她向加里请求帮助。 
② v. 要求, 请求 
request sb.to do sth.  ＝ask sb.to do sth. 要求某人做…… require sb.to do sth. 要求某人做…… 
	You are required/asked to do sth. 	（对人要求习惯用被动语态） 
 
★ spare adj. 备用的 
① vt.  抽出（时间等），让给 
Have you got five minutes to spare? 
I cannot spare the time. I have no time to spare. 
②	vt. 饶恕，赦免 
The robbers spared his life. 
‘Share me!’begged the prisoner. 
③	adj. 多余的，空闲的，剩下的，备用的 
You can sleep in the spare bedroom. 
Where can I get spare parts for this machine? I have no spare time now. 
‘Have you any old clothes that you do not want?’ he asked. =‘Have you any old clothes to spare?’he asked. 
 
	★ service 	n. 业务, 服务 
service  作为不可数名词时通常用于表示旅馆、餐馆以及商店等对旅客、顾客等的侍候、接待或服务； 作
为可数名词时可以表示为帮助他人所采取的行动或所做的工作。 
The service in that hotel is quite good. You have done me a great service. 
service 既可以指公用事业的业务，如：the mail service（邮政业务）、the telephone service（电话业务）；
也可指办这些业务的机构，如：a travel service（旅行社）、a news service（通讯社）。 
At your service. = Glad to be at your service. = I am glad to be at your service. 我很乐意为您效劳. 
	serve 	v. 服务, 接待 
 
——Thank you. 
——You are welcome.(下次又需要再来找我)/Not at all.(根本完全不用谢)/That's (all)right./That's ok.(绝对正确, 绝对过时)/(It's) My pleasure.(我很高兴这么做, 把自己放得很低, 把对方抬得很高) Thank you for your listening.在讲课, 演讲结束时说, 即感谢大家的合作的概念（应以鼓掌回应）情急之下, 可用No thanks.回答 ——Sorry. ——No sorry. 
 
【Text】 
Mr.James Scott has a garage in Silbury and now he has just bought another garage in Pinhurst. Pinhurst is only five miles from Silbury, but Mr. Scott cannot get a telephone for his new garage, so he has just bought twelve pigeons. Yesterday, a pigeon carried the first message from Pinhurst to Silbury. The bird covered the distance in three minutes. Up to now, Mr.Scott has sent a great many requests for spare parts and other urgent messages from one garage to the other. In this way, he has begun his own private 'telephone' service. 
 
参考译文詹姆斯.斯科特先生在锡尔伯里有一个汽车修理部, 现在他刚在平赫斯特买了另一个汽车修理部. 平赫特离锡尔伯里只有 5 英里, 但詹姆斯.斯科特先生未能为他新的汽车修理部搞到一部电话机, 所以他买了只鸽子. 昨天, 一只鸽子把第一封信从平赫特带到锡尔伯里. 这只鸟只用了 3 分钟就飞完了全程. 到目前为止, 斯科特先生从一个汽车修理部向另一个发送了大量索取备件的信件和其他紧急函件. 就这样, 他开始自己的私人 “电话” 业务. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	Mr.James Scott has a garage in Silbury and now he has just bought another garage in Pinhurst. 
garage n. 车库, 车行（英美读音不同） another(+单数名词) 其它的很多个中的一个， 
Can you show me another? 
other(+名词)  adj.其它的(可加单/复数名词) the other 两个之中的另外一个 one…the other… 一个……另一个…… 
One is watering the flowers, and the other is reading. 
others(不用再加名词)= other + 名词复数 
Some boys are playing football, and others are rowing/(going boating). 
 
2、	Pinhurst is only five miles from Silbury, but Mr. Scott cannot get a telephone for his new garage, so he has just bought twelve pigeons. 
介词 from 在这里表示距离上相隔，作“距……”、“离……”讲，常与 away 连用 
It is far (away) from here. 
Bus stop is only one mile from school/here. 
Bus stop is only one mile (away). 
She has been away from home for 5 days now. 
 
How far...? 多远（对距离提问） 
How far(away) is the bus stop? 
How far is your home(from here)? 
My home is ten miles away from here. 
	get a telephone 	得到电话, 安装电话 
 
3、	Yesterday, a pigeon carried the first message from Pinhurst to Silbury. 
	carry 	v. 带着, 携带（其强调所携带的东西不会着地） 
I carried my son. （背或抱着） 
I carry the bag. take 	v. 带着 
I take my sister to the cinema. 
 
from…to…表示从一个地方到另一个地方
He looked at the girl from head to foot. 
	The news spread from house to house. 	家家户户都得知了这条消息。 
 
4、	The bird covered the distance in three minutes. cover the distance 飞过那段距离 
 
5 、 Up to now, Mr.Scott has sent a great many requests for spare parts and other urgent messages from one garage to the other. 
up to now =up till now 到目前为止，到现在为止(作时间状语，时态多用现在完成时，相当于 until/till now) 
Up to now, he has not been very hard-working. 
request for 	对……的需求 a great many(+可数名词复数) 	许多…… a great many 可以做形容词短语： 
A great many trees were destroyed in the storm. 也可作代词短语： 
He has read a great many of the books in this room. a great number of(+可数名词复数) 许 多 …… urgent 	adj. 紧急的 
something urgent 紧急的事情 
 
【Key structures】 	 一般过去时与现在完成时 
在表示过去某个特定时间发生的事情或动作时，要用一般过去时。在表示刚刚或者已经完成一个动作   
并且对现在有影响时，则要用现在完成时，时间状语可以是不特指的 now，just 或者 for 引导的一段时间，或者不加任何时间状语。 
一般过去时与现在完成时的共同点：动作在过去都做过了；区别：过去式只能强调过去的事, 和现在 
没有任何关系. 
I ate a piece of bread. 
 
现在完成时, 强调过去的事情对现在产生的影响. 
I have eaten a piece of bread this morning. I'm not hungry. 
The clock stopped. 陈述事实 
The clock has stopped. 过去的事实对现在造成影响 
It snowed yesterday. 
It has snowed yesterday. 强调对现在造成影响 
 
【Special Difficulties】带 way 的短语 in the way 按照，以……方式 
Do your work in the way I have shown you. 按我给你示范的方法来做你的工作。 
I do the work in the way you showed me. I fly the kite in the way you showed me. 
	in the/one’s way 	挡路；妨碍（某人） 
Sorry, you are in the way.(在口语中很少用, 一般直接用 Excuse me.就可以了) 
Don’t stand in the way. I can’t see the blackboard. 
	in this way 	这样,以这种方式 
He saves old envelopes. In this way, he has collected a great many stamps. in a way 从某种意义上来说，在某种程度上 
In a way, you are kind. 
in a friendly way 用友好的方式 in the family way 怀孕了, 快有小孩了(have a baby) 
The woman is in the family way. 
	by the way 	随便说一声, 随便问一下(插入语，改变话题时用) 
By the way, have you seen Harry recently? on the/one’s way(to) 在去……的途中(陈述句) : on the way to school/the office；on the way home out of the way 让路 
	Get out of the way! 	你给我滚出去! 
get one's own way 随心所欲 (at one’s pleasure) Children get their own way during the holidays. 
 
关于系动词 : 一般来说, 如 be become 一定不单独使用, 往往要在后面加上表语, 我们称它为系动词. 但另外还有一些系动词同时又是不及物的实义动词, 常见的有 : seem, look, appear, sound, taste, feel, smell, stay, remain, keep, grow, turn, go, run, get, prove, stand 等, 这些词有的语法书上称为半联系动词. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4 Mr. Scott cannot get a telephone for his garage. ___b_ he has just bought twelve pigeons. 
	a. That's so 	b. That's why 	c. Because 	d. For 
so 表示前面是原因, 后面是结果 
That's why+从句 那就是……原因, 前者是原因, 后者 why 后面是结果 was caught in the traffic 
 jam. That's why I was late. 
That's 后面的表语从句常常用特殊疑问词引导, 再加一个句子 
That's when we can start class. 
That's where we will have a meeting. 
That's how I get to school. 
 
8 Mr. Scott has a garage in Silbury. His ___b___ garage is in Pinhurst. 
	a. another 	b. other 	c. else 	d. different 
在语法上,  冠词（an/a）、形容词性物主代词（his/my/your）、名词所有格（my mother's）不能同时并存 
的, 一般要用只能用其中一个 
another=an +other 另外一个，强调的是剩下的还有好几个当中的一个, 强调的是有三个以上 other 其它的, 加单数就表示一个, his 取代 the 的位置语法的范围正在放宽松, his another 也对, 但不太好 
else 其他的，放在被修饰词的后面, 会修饰两种词, 疑问词和不定代词修饰疑问代词： who else,… 
What else can I do for you? 
修饰不定代词：anyone else, anything else  