
 
	Lesson 47 	A thirsty ghost 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（9） 
thirsty 	adj. 贪杯的 
ghost 	n. 鬼魂 
haunt 	v. （鬼）来访，闹鬼 
block 	v. 堵 
furniture 	n. 家具 
whisky 	n. 威士忌酒 
suggest 	v.  暗示 
shake 	v.  摇动 
accept 	v.  接受 
 
★ thirsty adj. 贪杯的；adj. 渴的 be thirsty for = be hungry for 渴望得到(如饥似渴) 
I am thirsty for the book. 
 
★	ghost n. 鬼魂 ghost 强调魂，并不是邪恶的象征 
‘Ghost’ --- 影片《人鬼情未了》的英文名 
 
★	haunt 	v. (鬼)来访, 闹鬼 haunt=visit 	但不能应用于人的拜访，只能用在 ghost 
	the ghost haunt 	闹鬼 
The ghost haunted the house. 这个房子闹鬼 
★	block 	v. 堵 
The pipe was blocked. 
 
★	furniture 	n. 家具, 设备, 储藏物（不可数名词） 
a piece of furniture 	一件家具 a set of furniture 	一套家具  
★	whisky 	n. 威士忌酒 Scotch 	n. 一种上等的威士忌 wine 	n. 果酒,如葡萄酒,石榴酒 beer 	n. 啤酒 brandy 	n. 白兰地  
★	suggest 	v.  暗示 
①	vt.  暗示，（间接地）表明 
His silence suggested that he knew something about the man. 
②	vt. 建议，提议 
suggest +that 从句 
I suggest that we meet at the restaurant. suggest +doing sth. I suggest meeting at the restaurant. 
 
★ shake（shook，shaken） v. 摇动 
①	vt.&vi. 摇，摇动，抖动 
Mr. Thompson shook his head. 
	His hands appear to be shaking. 	他的手看上去在发抖。 
②	vt. 同……握手 
Dan shook hands with him. =Dan shook him by the hand/shook his hand. 
 
	★ accept 	v. 接受 
accept = receive sth.with pleasure） 
 
【Text】 
A public house which was recently bought by Mr. Ian Thompson is up for sale. Mr.Thompson is going to sell it because it is haunted. He told me that he could not go to sleep one night because he heard a strange noise coming from the bar. The next morning, he found that the doors had been blocked by chairs and the furniture had been moved. Though Mr.Thompson had turned the lights off before he went to bed, they were on in the morning. He also said that he had found five empty whisky bottles which the ghost must have drunk the night before. When I suggested that some villagers must have come in for a free drink, Mr.Thompson shook his head. The villagers have told him that they will not accept the pub even if he gives it away. 
 
参考译文伊恩.汤普森先生最近才买的一个小酒店现在又要卖出去. 汤普森先生之所以想卖它, 是因为那里常闹鬼. 他告诉我有天夜里他怎么也睡不着, 因为他听到酒吧里传来一阵奇怪的响声. 第二天早上, 他发现酒吧间的门被椅子堵上了, 家具也被挪动过. 虽然汤普森临睡觉时把灯关了, 但早晨灯却都亮着. 他还说他发现了 5 只空的威士忌瓶子, 肯定是鬼魂昨天晚上喝的. 当我暗示说一定是村里有些人来喝不花钱的酒时, 汤普森先生摇了摇头. 村里的人已经告诉他, 即使他把小酒店白送人, 他们也不要. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、A public house which was recently bought by Mr. Ian Thompson is up for sale. 
a public house 酒吧、酒店，口语缩略为 pub up for sale 有待出售，供出售（up 为形容词，“已提出的，供……的） be up for 有待于……，为了某一目的 
This problem is up for discussion.这个问题有待于讨论
on sale 打折卖 for sale 拿出来卖的 2、He told me that he could not go to sleep one night because he heard a strange noise coming from the bar. hear sb.doing sth. 听见某人正在做某事在一些表示感觉的动词如 see，hear，feel，watch，notice 等之后，往往用“动词+宾语+宾语补足语”这个结构，其宾语补足语既可以是不定式（通常不加 to），也可以是现在分词，两者在意义上区别不大，现在分词表示动作正在发生，不定式则表示动作发生了： 
	I heard someone knocking at the door. 	我听到有人正在敲门。 
I heard you sing this song yesterday. 	昨天我听到你唱这支歌。 bar 为酒吧或酒店中卖酒的柜台 
 
3、	Though Mr.Thompson had turned the lights off before he went to bed, they were on in the morning. on 为形容词，表示“开着的，接通的”，其反义词为 off。 
When he arrived home, he found that all the lights were on/off. Is the TV on? I thought I had turned it off.   （turn off 关闭） 
 
4、	He also said that he had found five empty whisky bottles which the ghost must have drunk the night before. the night before 前一天晚上 ， last night 昨天晚上 the week before 前一个星期 ， last week 上个星期 the day before 前一天 ， yesterday 昨天 the next day 下一天 ， tomorrow 明天直接引语变成间接引语时间状语要改变。now——>then，last night——>the night before，two days ago 
——>two days before/earlier，today——>that day，tonight——>that night，tomorrow——>the next/following day，last night——>the night before 等。 
 
5、	When I suggested that some villagers must have come in for a free drink, Mr.Thompson shook his head. for 表目的，a free drink 免费饮料 shake one's head 摇头，表示异议 
nod one's head 点头 
 
6、	The villagers have told him that they will not accept the pub even if he gives it away. even if he gives it away 即使他白送人 
	even if 	即使，它引导的让步状语从句含有很强的假定性 
I won’t have dinner with him even if he pays for it. give away 	捐献，免费的送，赠送 
He gave all his books away to the library. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
7 The ghost must have drunk the whisky. In Mr. Thompson's opinion, the ghost ___a___ whisky. a.must drink 	b.has got to drink 	c.has to drink 	d.should drink 
in one's opinion 就某人看来，以某人观点，某人认为；I think…太过强调个人的主观性, 一般用 
in one's opinion 更让人接受 have to=have got to 
should 可以是情态代词，表应该，不能表示推测 
It's too late,I should go home. 太晚了,我要回家了. 
must+ v.(原型) 必须做；很可能做  