
 
	Lesson 64 	The Channel Tunnel 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（13） 
tunnel 	n. 隧道 	
port 	n. 港口 	
ventilate 	v.  通风 	
chimney 	n. 烟囱 	
sea level 	海平面 	
double 	adj. 双的 	
ventilation 	n. 通风 	
fear 	v.  害怕 	
invasion 	n. 入侵，侵略 	
officially 	adv. 正式地 	
connect 	v. 连接 	
European 	adj. 欧洲的 	
continent 
 	n. 大陆 	
★ tunnel 	n. 隧道 	
channel 	n. 海 峡 （The Channel 	英吉利海峡） 
 
★	ventilate 	v. 通风 ventilation 	n. 通风 
	Forced Ventilation 	强制排风系统 
（forced adj. 被迫的，强迫的，动用武力的） air v. 通风 
	Air the room, please! 	给房间通通风 
 
★	double adj. 双的字母 W  的读音就是“double u”，意为两个 u  构成 w . 
couple，pair 	两个 a couple of weeks a pair of shoes/socks/glasses 一副眼镜 
 
★	fear 	v. 害怕 ① vt. 害怕，畏惧 
	sb. fear doing sth. 	害怕做…… 
She fears speaking in public. sb. fear sth. 	害怕…… 
I feared darkness. 
	be afraid of 	害怕…… 
I am afraid of dogs. 
	be afraid of / fear 	人做主语 
 
② vt. 恐怕，猜想（比 be afraid 要正式） fear that… 	恐怕…… 
We fear /It is feared/ We’re afraid that many lives have been lost in the crash. 
	be afraid that… = I am sorry. 	恐怕……（婉言谢绝） 
Can you help me? 
I am afraid I can't. = I am afraid not. 
fright / frighten / frightening / frightened / frightful 
sth. frighten sb. = sth. scare sb. ……吓了……一跳 You frightened/scared me. The doy frightened me. 
frighten = scare 是因某件突然的事情才让某人产生了害怕的情绪，句子后边的部分是人 horrify v. 使恐怖, 使极度厌恶, 惊骇 horrified adj. 惊悸的, 带有恐怖感的, 惊骇的  
★	invasion 	n. 入侵, 侵略 invade 	vt. 侵略, 侵袭, 拥挤  
★	officially   	adv.  正式地
official 	adj. （官方的）正式 formally 	 adv. （一般的）正式 
 
★	connect 	v. 连接 
connect sth. with/to… 把……和……连接 connect A with B (A 和 B 平等) connect A to B (A 连到 B 上去) 
This road connects the village with/to London. 
 
★	European 	adj. 欧洲的 
 
★	continent 	n. 大陆 
	European Continent 	欧洲大陆（不包括欧洲岛国） 
 
【Text】 
In 1858, a French engineer, Aime Thome de Gamond, arrived in England with a plan for a twenty-one-mile tunnel under the English Channel. He said that it would be possible to build a platform in the centre of the Channel. This platform would serve as a port and a railway station. The tunnel would be well-ventilated if tall chimneys were built above sea level. In 1860, a better plan was put forward by an Englishman, William Low. He suggested that a double railway-tunnel should be built. This would solve the problem of ventilation, for if a train entered this tunnel, it would draw in fresh air behind it. Forty-two years later a tunnel was actually begun. If, at the time, the British had not feared invasion, it would have been completed. The world had to wait almost another 100 years for the Channel Tunnel. It was officially opened on March 7,1994, finally connecting Britain to the European continent. 
参考译文 
1858 年, 一位名叫埃梅·托梅·德·干蒙的法国工程师带着建造一条长 21 英里、穿越英吉利海峡的隧道计划到了英国. 他说, 可以在隧道中央建造一座平台, 这座平台将用作码头和火车站. 如果再建些伸出海面的高大的烟囱状通风管, 隧道就具备了良好的通风条件. 1860 年, 一位名叫威廉·洛的英国人提出了一项更好的计划. 他提议建一条双轨隧道, 这样就解决了通风问题. 因为如果有一列火车开进隧道, 它就把新鲜空气随之抽进了隧道. 42 年以后, 隧道实际已经开始建了. 如果不是因为那时英国人害怕入侵, 隧道早已建成了. 世界不得不再等将近 100 年才看到海峡隧道竣工. 它于 1994 年 3 月 7 日正式开通, 将英国与欧洲大陆连到了一起. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	In 1858, a French engineer, Aime Thome de Gamond, arrived in England with a plan for a twenty-one-mile tunnel under the English Channel. 
plan for +名词/动名词 ……的计划 twenty-one-mile 加连字符，用单数，作定语  
2、	This platform would serve as a port and a railway station. 
	serve as… =serve for… 	起……作用，用作……，充当…… 
It will serve as a swimming pool. 
This sofa can serve as/for (a) bed.  
3、	In 1860, a better plan was put forward by an Englishman, William Low. 
	put forward (plan/suggestion) 	提出（计划、建议等） 
You know they wouldn’t accept your plan. Why did you put it forward? 
 
4、	He suggested that a double railway-tunnel should be built. 
suggest 
①	vt. 暗示，用法与其他的词相同 
②	vt. 建议，用虚拟语气，后接动词是要用-ing 形式，后接 that 从句采用一种固定的用法“should+ 动词原形”（should  可省略） 
	I suggested (that) he (should) go home. 	(that, should 都可省略) 
	He suggested that I should go with him. 	他建议我一定要跟他去. 
insist 作“坚持”讲时用法同 suggest He insisted that I should stay to lunch. 他坚持要我留下来吃晚饭. 
 
5 、 This would solve the problem of ventilation, for if a train entered this tunnel, it would draw in fresh air behind it. 
draw in 吸进，如用bring 没有 draw in 形象、贴切  
6、If, at the time, the British had not feared invasion, it would have been completed. 
虚拟语气(非真实条件句)中，与现在事实相反，从句用一般过去时；与过去事实相反，从句用过去完成 
时，此时主句格式为 would have done，would/could/should 都可以情态动词加 have done 表示对过去的推测，如 must have done，can't have done 等 7、The world had to wait almost another 100 years for the Channel Tunnel. wait for sb. 
wait (for) some times 
I have waited five minutes. (for 可不要) 
I have waited for you (for) five minutes. 
I have waited five years for you. 
 
【Summary writing】 
1 Who planned to build a tunnel under the English Channel in 1858? How would it be ventilated? (The tunnel, which…) 
4 Did work begin forty－two years later or not? Why was it stopped? (Though…because) 5 When was the Channel Tunnel officially opened? (However) 
 
1 先行词, which : 非限定性定语从句 
The tunnel, which a French engineer planned to build in 1858, would be ventilated if tall chimmeys were built above sea level. 
4	Though it was begun (work begin forty-two years later), it was stopped because… 
5	However 起了副词的作用,后面可以直接加一个句子 
 
【Composition】 
1	The English Channel separates Britain from Europe. The country has not been invaded since1066. (Thanks to…which) 
2	Modern warfare is far more complex. Such fears no longer exist.(However, now that…) 
3	Britain benefits enormously from a Channel Tunnel. Europe benefits enormously from a Channel Tunnel. 
(Both…and) 
 
1	thanks to 	幸亏(to 是介词) 
Thanks to the English Channel which separates British from Europe, the… 
2	now that 	即使；既然 
Howwever, now that moden warfare is far more complex ,such fears no longer exist. 即使现代战争越来越复杂了,然而这样的害怕都已经不存在了 
3	Both Britain and Europe benefit... (注意 benefit 不能加 s) 
	benefit 	n. 利益，好处；vt. 有益于，有助于；vi. 受益 
 
【Key structures】 
第 3 类条件句 
第 3 类条件句是在 if 从句里设想纯粹想像的事情，在主句里讲述想像的结果，谈的是没有或永远不可能有的结果，指的是过去没有过的事情。第 3 类条件句的基本结构是 if 从句用过去完成时，主句用 would have/ should have +过去分词： 
If it had rained, we would have stayed at home. 
If I had worked harded at school, I’d have got a better job. 
在 if 从句中可用 could have +过去分词代替 had been able to +动词原形： 
I’d have read that book if I could have bought it. 
特殊结构 : suggest/insist, 后接 that 从句(should+动词原形) 
 
【Special difficulties】 
动词 draw 的一些短语 draw 	vt. 拉，拖 draw in 	使……进入；吸入 
	The smell of flowers in the shop drew us in. 	花的香味使我们走进了这家商店。 
	draw back 	后退，后缩；收回，撤回 
You must finish the work by yourselves now. They have drawn back their people. 你们得靠自己完成这项工作。他们已把他们的人员撤走了。 draw up 	停住，使……停住；起草，制订，拟订 
I was waiting for Jill in front of a shop when a taxi drew up beside me. Have any new agreements been drawn up between the two countries? 
	draw off 	撤走，离开 
The villagers had to draw off because of the flood. When the others were talking loudly, he quickly drew off. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
3 It would be possible to build a platform. A platform ___c____. 
	a. could build 	b. would be built 	c. could be built 	d. would build 
could 可能 ；would 表示将来要做 
 
9 A plan was put forward by William Low. He ___a__ it. 
a. suggested 	 	 	b. intended 	c. aimed at 	d. planned put forword 提出 ；intend to do sth. 	 打算做…… aim at 	目标是…… ；plan 	v. 计划 suggest 	v. 建议 
suggest + doing sth. ；suggest that 从句； suggest + 名词或代词  
11  It finally connects Britain and Europe. Britain and Europe are finally ___ b_ . 
a. mixed 	b. joined together 	c. rejoined 	d. combined mix   v. 混 合；join  	v. 连接(加入), 强调使成为其中一员 rejoin 	v.  再次加入；combine 	v. 合并 connect 强调连接 