
 
	Lesson 54 	Sticky fingers 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（14） 
sticky 	adj. 粘的 
finger 	n. 手指 
pie 	n. 馅饼 
mix 	v. 混合，拌和 
pastry 	n. 面糊 
annoying 	adj. 恼人的 
receiver 	n. 电话的话筒 
dismay 	v.  失望，泄气 
recognize 	v.  认出，听出 
persuade 	v.  说服，劝说 
mess 	n. 乱七八糟 
doorknob 	n. 门把手 
sign 	v. 签字 
register 	v. 挂号邮寄 
 
★	sticky adj. 粘的 as sticky as glue 和胶水一样粘  
★	finger 	n. 手指 
thumb   大拇指；index finger 食指；middle finger 中指； ring finger 无名指；little finger 小指 toe 	n. 脚趾  
★	mix 	v. 混合, 拌和 
① vt. 使混和，拌和 
I was busy mixing butter and flour. 
You can mix some salt into the flour. 
② vi. 交往，相处 
	I’m not going to mix with those people. 	我不打算和那些人来往。 
	Mary doesn’t mix much. 	玛丽不太和人交往。 
mixture 	n. 混合物  
★	annoying 	adj. 恼人的 
It is annoying. 
	annoyed 	adj. 感到烦恼的（比 anger 的语气弱） 
 
★	dismay 	v. 失望, 泄气 	 dismay sb. 让某人感到失望 	 
	dismaying 	adj. 令人失望；dismayed 	adj. 感到失望 
★	recognize 	v. 认出，听出 
① vt. 辨出，认出，认识 
I recognized the voice of Helen Bates. 
② vt. 承认，确认，认可 
It is recognized that Jane is the most intelligent girl among us. He recognized Dan as one of his best friends. 
 
★	persuade 	v. 说服, 劝说 persuade 表示劝说已经成功 try to persuade 	劝说 
reason with sb. 	劝说，并不能说明是否劝说成功  
★	mess n. 乱七八糟口语中a mess 用来指“困境，窘境，一团糟”等含义 
	What a mess! 	真是糟糕透了！ 
You are a mess! 你真邋遢 
The man/woman is a mess. 
	make a mess of sth. 	把……搅得乱七八糟 
	He made a mess of my job. 	他把我的工作搅得一团糟 
Make some jam if you want to, but don’t make a mess in the kitchen. 
 
★	sign 	v. 签字 sign your name(s) here 	在这签名 (许多人加 “s” ) sign for 签收 signature 	n. 签名 
I need your signature. 我需要你的签名 autograph n. 明星, 名人的签名 (n. 亲笔签名；v. 签署) 
 
	★ register 	v. 挂号邮寄 
a registered letter 挂号信 
 
【Text】 
After breakfast, I sent the children to school and then I went to the shops. It was still early when I returned home. The children were at school, my husband was at work and the house was quiet. So I decided to make some meat pies. In a short time I was busy mixing butter and flour and my hands were soon covered with sticky pastry. At exactly that moment, the telephone rang. Nothing could have been more annoying. I picked up the receiver between two sticky fingers and was dismayed when I recognized the voice of Helen Bates. It took me ten minutes to persuade her to ring back later. At last I hung up the receiver. What a mess! There was pastry on my fingers, on the telephone, and on the doorknobs. I had no sooner got back to the kitchen than the doorbell rang loud enough to wake the dead. This time it was the postman and he wanted me to sign for a registered letter! 
 
参考译文 
早饭后, 我送孩子们上学, 然后就去了商店. 我回到家时, 时间还早. 孩子们在上学, 我丈夫在上班, 家里清静得很. 于是我决定做些肉馅饼. 不一会儿我就忙着调拌起了黄油和面粉, 很快我的手上就沾满了粘粘的面糊. 恰恰在此时, 电话铃响了. 没有什么能比这更烦人了. 我用两个沾满面糊的手指捏起了话筒. 当我听出是海伦·贝茨的声音时, 非常丧气. 我用了 10 分钟的时间才说服她过会儿再来电话. 我终于挂上了话筒. 真是糟糕透了!我的手指上、电话机上以及门的把手上, 都沾上了面糊. 我刚回到厨房, 门铃又响了起来, 响声足以把死人唤醒. 这次是邮递员, 他要我签收一封挂号信! 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	The children were at school, my husband was at work and the house was quiet. 
at school 在上学；at work 在上班；at home 在家休息 school 和 work 前都不加冠词，因为不是指具体那个学校或具体干什么工作，只是泛指他们在干什么。
home 为副词，所以也不加冠词。 
 
2、	In a short time I was busy mixing butter and flour and my hands were soon covered with sticky pastry. be busy doing sth. 忙于做某事 flour 面粉, 不可数名词, 注意发音于 “flower” 相同, 但 “flower” 是可数名词, 一般会用复数 
“flowers” 
	be covered with… 	盖满…… 
 
3、	At exactly that moment, the telephone rang. 
at exactly that moment 就在那时，恰恰在此时 exactly 用于加强语气，表示“正、恰恰”： 
That’s exactly what I wanted to tell you.  
4、	Nothing could have been more annoying. 
	No one could be/have been… 	没有人…… 
No one could be /have been fatter. 没有人更胖了 
	Nothing could have been… 	没有……更…… 
	Nothing could have been cheaper. 	没有什么东西更便宜了 
	Nothing could have been more exciting.  	没有什么事情更令人激动
No face could be uglier. 没有一张脸更丑了 No books could be more interesting. 没有书更有趣了 
 
5 、 I picked up the receiver between two sticky fingers and was dismayed when I recognized the voice of Helen Bates. 
pick up the receiver 	捡起话筒  
6、It took me ten minutes to persuade her to ring back later. persuade sb. to do sth. 说服某人做某事 
I persuaded him to give up that plan. 
	persuade sb. into doing sth. 	说服某人做…… 
I persuaded him into giving up that plan. 
	It takes sb. some time to do sth. 	花费某人多久做某事（“it” 作形式主语） 
ring back 	回电话；再打电话 later 表示“过后，以后” 
Ten minutes later, the bus arrived. 
Please come back later (on). 
 
7、At last I hung up the receiver. 
	hang up 	挂起 
hang up the receiver 	挂断电话  
8、I had no sooner got back to the kitchen than the doorbell rang loud enough to wake the dead. no sooner…than… = hardly…when… 刚……就……（用于过去完成时） 
 
	★ enough 	n.& adj.& adv. 足够 
① n. 足够 
I have/had had enough. 我已经拥有足够了。 
② adj. 足够的 enough +n. / n. +enough 修饰名词 
I have enough time/time enough. 
③ adv. 足以…… enough 修饰 adj.或者 adv.时一定要放在被修饰词的后面 enough to do sth. 足以用来做某事 
He is rich enough to buy the whole city. 他富有的可以买下整个城市 
The water in the pool is warm enough (to swim in). I am hungry enough to eat sth. 
 
【Summary writing】 
1 Did the writer return home from the shops or not? What did she begin to make? (As soon as) 
1 as soon as= when，时间状语从句引导词，as soon as 强调这个动作一发生, 立即就发生了另一个动作； when 不强调两个动作紧密相连 
4 Did she look at the mess she had made or not? (After that) after 作介词, 后接名词或代词作宾语；作连词, 后接句子文中 “that” 为代词, “after that” 仅为介词短语 
 
【Composition】 
2 Two hours had passed.I smelled something burning.(When) Two hours had passed when I smelled something burning. 
…(time)passed, and then…；…(time)passed, before… 
一般不会把 “when” 放在 “…(time)passed…” 之前, 这是一种习惯 something burning burning 放在不定代词后面, “-ing” 表主动关系, 即表示东西正在燃烧. 【Letter writing】 
在信的第一段里, 你应该提及你已经收到的一封信或促使你回信的某一事件 pleased to do sth. 非常高兴的 
I was very pleased to learn that you are well. 
I was very pleased to learn that you have a baby. 恭喜你做爸爸了 Thank you for +n. 
【Key structures】 
The, Some and Any 
1、	some 和 any 可用于不可数名词及复数可数名词之前，some 通常用于肯定句，any 通常用于否定句或疑问句中。但在期待得到肯定答复的疑问句中也可以用 some，而在肯定句中表示“随便哪个，任何一个” 的含义时也可以用 any。 
These are the only meat pies I have. Do you want some of them? Yes, please. Any meat pies will do. 
2、	有些形容词可以用于 the 之后（决不能用于 a/an 之后），表示作为整体的群体，如 the blind，the deaf， the living，the dead，the rich，the poor，the young，the old。这些形容词后要跟复数动词，不可用这些形容词本身来指个体： 
The Government always makes sure that the old are cared for. This is a special school for the deaf. 如果想指单数个体，则可以说： 
Sam is a young man with a lot of money. 
3、	当下列名词指其“主要目的”，即与其相关的动作时，要用零冠词（即名词前没有冠词）。这类名词有 bed，church，class，college，hospital，market，prison，school，sea，university，work。但在特指的东西面前要用the，泛指同类事物中的任何一个时则用 a。 
4、	在形容词/副词的最高级前面要用 the，但当 most 表示“大多数”时它前面则不加 the。 the most 最 
most of the… 大部分的…… most of the young people 大部分年轻人 
Most young men have to work hard. Most buildings in this district belong to the government. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
5 Nothing could have been more annoying. It was _d___annoying thing that could have happened. 
a.the more 	b.more 	c.most 	d. the most nothing + be more annoying 表达最高级含义  
8 She was busy mixing butter and flour. She was ___d _. 
	a.joining them 	b.uniting them 	c. unifying them 	d. putting them together 
United States (政治上的联合)；unify 与 unite 的用法基本相同, 指的是政治上的联合 join 	v. 加入， 
①	加入团体，组织 
join the army/join the party 
②	加入某某人 
Join us!(口语常用, 注意连读) 
 
10  She was dismayed when she heard Helen Bates. She felt ____ _. 
	a.pity 	b.sorry 	c.ill 	d.tired 
tired  单独用表示“很累”，只有 “tired of”  表示“厌烦” pity 为名词, sorry 为形容词，fell 为感官动词，后接形容词 ill 身体上的不舒服  