
 
	Lesson 49 	The end of a dream 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（13） 
tired 	adj. 厌烦的 
real 	adj. 真正的 
owner 	n. 主人 
spring 	n. 弹簧 
mattress 	n. 床垫 
gust 	n. 一阵风 
sweep 	v.  扫，刮 
courtyard 	n. 院子 
smash 	v.  碰碎，摔碎 
miraculously 	adv. 奇迹般地 
unhurt 	adj. 没有受伤的 
glance 	v. 扫视 
promptly 	adv. 迅速地 
 
★	tired 	adj. 厌烦的 
be/get tired of sth./doing sth. 讨厌做某事 
 
★	real adj. 真正的 (强调东西不是假的) true adj. 真挚, 真诚, 符合标准 (强调符合某个标准) 
real man 真人；true man 男子汉，好汉 
 
★	spring 	 	n. 弹簧 spring 	n. 春天；泉水 fountain 	n. 人工喷泉 
 
★	mattress  	n. 床垫 mat 	n. 垫子 (如杯垫) cushion  	n. 座垫 
 
★	gust 	n. 一阵（阵）风 
a gust of anger 	(一阵)无名火 breeze 	n. 微风 gale 	n.  大风，（突发的）一阵风（风力比 gust 强） wind 	n. 风的总称  
★ sweep (swept[swept],swept) n. 扫刮 
①	vt. 扫，打扫 
She sweeps the floor/the room every morning. 
②	vt. （风）吹；刮  
 
A gust of wind swept the bed off the roof. 
	sweep sth. away 	把……刮走 
The newspaper has been swept away by the wind. blow v. 刮  
★	smash 	v. 碰碎, 摔碎 
①	vt.&vi.  打碎，摔碎，（使）碎裂 
The cup smashed on the floor. 
	smash sth. into pieces 	把……摔成碎片 
The bed was smashed to piece. 
	crash 	v. 受挤压而变碎 
The egg is easy to crash. 
cut sth. into pieces 	切碎, 剪碎 tear sth. into pieces 	撕碎 break 	v. 打碎 crack 	v. 裂开不碎 
②	vt.&vi. 重击，殴打，猛砸/撞 
Why didn’t you smash the man with your fist? 
A car smashed into the wall. 
 
★	courtyard 	n.  院子 court 	n. 院子，庭院；法庭 yard 	 n. 院子 backyard 	n. 后院  
★	glance v. 扫视 
	glance at 	扫了一眼（有意识地看） 
glare at 瞪着(生气的) stare at 盯着 
	gaze at 	盯着(无限神往, 羡慕地看) 
 
★	promptly 	adv. 迅速地 
promptly＝at once, immediately 
 
【Text】 
Tired of sleeping on the floor, a young man in Teheran saved up for years to buy a real bed. For the first time in his life, he became the proud owner of a bed which had springs and a mattress. Because the weather was very hot, he carried the bed on to the roof of his house. He slept very well for the first two nights, but on the third night, a storm blew up. A gust of wind swept the bed off the roof and sent it crashing into the courtyard below. The young man did not wake up until the bed had struck the ground. Although the bed was smashed to pieces, the man was miraculously unhurt. When he woke up, he was still on the mattress. Glancing at the bits of wood and metal that lay around him, the man sadly picked up the mattress and carried it into his house. After he had put 
 
it on the floor, he promptly went to sleep again. 
 
参考译文 
德黑兰的一个年轻人由于对睡地板感到厌倦, 于是积蓄多年买了一张真正的床. 他平生第一次自豪地拥有了一张既有弹簧又带床垫的床. 由于天气很热, 他便把床搬到了他的屋顶上. 头两天晚上, 他睡得非常好. 但第三天晚上起了风暴. 一阵大风把床从屋顶上刮了下来, 把它摔碎在下面的院子里. 那年轻人直到床撞到地上才醒了过来. 尽管床摔成了碎片, 但年轻人却奇迹般地没有受伤. 他醒来时, 仍然躺在床垫上. 年轻人看了一眼周围的碎木片和碎金属片, 伤心地捡起了床垫, 把它拿进了屋. 他把床垫往地板上一放, 很快又睡着了. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Tired of sleeping on the floor, a young man in Teheran saved up for years to buy a real bed. 
be tired of 对……感到厌倦，在这句话里省略了现在分词 being，用形容词短语直接做原因状语，其作用相当于原因状语从句 as he was tired of…。 
	I always go to bed hungry. 	（用形容词直接做状语） 
Worried about my daughter, Lucy, she went to London to visit Lucy. I went home. I am tired. => I went home tired I went home excited. 
	save up 	攒钱，储蓄 
I want to get married in one or two years, so I’m trying to save (some money) up. 
 
2、	For the first time in his life, he became the proud owner of a bed which had springs and a mattress. 
for the first time in one's life 	平生第一次 He became the proud father of a baby. 	我自豪的成为一个孩子的父亲了. 
 
3、	Because the weather was very hot, he carried the bed on to the roof of his house. 
on to（onto） 类似与 in to（into），用于表示动作方向而不用于表示静态的位置，不但有“去”的概念 
还有把它放到“on”（上面）的概念。onto/on to 有时可用 on 代替，但表示位置的 on 不可用 onto 代替： 
Lift sth. on to the cart. 
I put the pen onto/on the table. 
The pen is on the table. （不能用 onto/on to） 
Mr. Thompson is jumped onto the stage. 汤普森先生跳上了台上。 
	Mr. Thompson jumped on the stage. 	汤普森先生在台上跳了跳。 
 
4、He slept very well for the first two nights, but on the third night, a storm blew up. for the first two nights 头两天晚上 
I study hard for the first three days. 
	for the last three nights 	最后三天晚上 
blow up <adv.> 风越刮越大(程度在加深)，（指暴风雨）出现并加剧；刮起 speak up 大声点 
 
5、A gust of wind swept the bed off the roof and sent it crashing into the courtyard below. 
gust 表示“一阵强风，一阵狂风”，既可单独使用，也可用 a gust of wind 形式： 
A gust (of wind) blew my hat off. 
She set off even though the wind was blowing in gusts. 虽然当时阵阵狂风吹着，她还是出发了。 off = down/away from 
below 直接放在被修饰词之后作定语 
crashing into the courtyard below 是现在分词短语，作宾语补足语。crash （不及物动词）直接用主动形式，smash（及物动词）可用被动一个句子中不能出现两个动词，如果出现了两个动词，要用 and 或 but 连接；或者把其中一个作为非谓语动词 to do(表目的)，-ed(表被动)，-ing(表主动)。  
6、	The young man did not wake up until the bed had struck the ground. 
not…until  表示“直到……才”，until  前面没有 not  时，与表示一段时间的“持续动词”连用；有 not 
时，常用表示某一时间点的动词（或瞬间动词）连用： 
I’ll stay here until Monday. 我要在这儿呆到星期一。 I won’t leave until Monday. 我要到星期一才离开。 
 
7、	Although the bed was smashed to pieces, the man was miraculously unhurt. although 尽管；though 虽然，意义差不多，以从句出现 to pieces 	粉碎地，成碎片地 
The cup was broken to pieces. 
 
8 、 Glancing at the bits of wood and metal that lay around him, the man sadly picked up the mattress and carried it into his house. 
glancing 为现在分词，引导的短语相当于一个时间状语从句 after he glanced at…。动词的 ing 形式一定强调某一个名词之间的主动关系。 glance 	v. 看一眼，扫视 
Joe glanced through the newspaper while talking to me. 乔一边和我聊天，一边浏览报纸。 
bits = pieces 
lie (lay，lain)    不及物动词，后面一定要加“around”，不能说成“lay him” 
 
【letter writing】 
大多数书信都以“dear”开头，后接姓名，“dear”这个词一定要在信纸的左手边顶格。第二行如要退 
格是退 5 个字符, 现在西方都是顶格写。 
 
【Key structures】 	 复合句的语序 
复合句可用两种方法构成：一是用连词把从句与主句连接起来；二是用分词结构或不定式。 
1、用连词连接的复合句 
① 在复合句中，从句可以是名词从句（即起名词的作用）。在句子中，它可以作主语、宾语或 be 等系动词的表语，一般由 that 引导，有时也用 what（疑问词引导的除外） 
 
I know (that) the meeting will be put off. 
②	从句可以是关系（或形容词）从句，关系代词通常有 who，whom，that，which 和 whose。 
③	从句可以是状语（或副词）从句，时间状语连词有 when，after，before，as soon as，until，while， as，since 等；地点状语从句连词有 where，everywhere，anywhere 等；方式状语从句连词有 as 或短语 in the way (that)等，方式状语从句在动词 be，feel，seem，appear 等后面也可以由连词 as if 和 as though 来引导；原因状语从句由 because，as 等引导；条件状语从句可由 if 及其他连词引导；让步状语从句使句子具有对
比的因素，它们一般由连词 although，though，even though，even if 等引导；目的状语从句可由 so that，in order that 等连词引导；结果状语从句描述结果，可由 so+形容词+that 引导，也可由 such (a) +（形容词） + 名词 + that 来引导；比较状语从句结构包括 as +形容词/副词 + as，not so/as … as，形容词/副词的比较级 
+than，more…than，less…than 等 
He has been ill since he came back from his holidays. 
With a special train ticket, you can travel anywhere/everywhere you like in Europe for just over $100. Type this again as/in the way (that) I showed you just now. 
As you can’t go yourself, you’ll have to ask Susan go for you. 既然你自己不能去，那你就请苏珊替你去吧。 
2、分词结构的复合句 
①  用现在分词结构可以代替时间从句、原因从句、关系从句等，现在分词结构的这种用法仅限于两个动作的主语一致的时候。用它代替时间从句时，分词结构表示的动作如果发生在前，则分词结构要位于主  语前；如果两个动作同时发生，那么分词结构既可以位于主句前，也可以位于主句后。分词结构位于主句  前面时，要用逗号隔开。 
I got very angry speaking to them. 
Feeling tired, I went to bed earlier than usual. 
Following his mom, he went there.(主动概念, 跟着他母亲去了那儿) 
② 过去分词结构常用于比较正式的文体，往往代替被动语态 
Damaged in an accident, the car has now been repaired. 
Followed by his mom, he went there. (被动概念, 被他母亲带着跟着去了那儿) 
3、不定式结构的复合句 
这种结构通常可以代替表示目的或表示条件的状语从句： 
To get into university you have to pass a number of examinations. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
3、___b___ the hot weather, he couldn't sleep indoors. 
a. Because b. Because of c. As d. For because，as，for+句子，不能加词组；because of +名词  因为…… 
 
5 、 How ___b_ did he sleep? 
a. good b. well c. good d. nice how 对形容词或者副词提问 
He slept well. （how 对程度副词提问） 
The tree is tall. 	How tall is the tree? He sang songs beautifully. 	How beautifully did he sing? 
 
6、Where was the courtyard? C 
 
	a. Down. 	 	b. Under. 	c. Below. 	d. Bottom. 
down 	adv. 在……下(向下) go down, sit down 
under 介词必须加宾语 below 	adv. 下面, 表示一种状态 
	bottom 	n. 下面 
 
7、He looked at the bits of wood and metal ___c___ around him. 
	a. laying 	 	b. laid 	c. lying 	d. lied 
laying(lay) 	vt. 放  （lay the egg(下蛋)） lying(lie 	vi. 躺 lie in bed) 
lie（lied，lied） 撒谎 
过去分词属于非谓语动词, 做定语时与被修饰词形成被动关系 
 
8 A gust of wind swept the bed off the roof. The wind blew very _ a_ . 
	a. hard 	 	b. fast 	c. quickly 	d. soon 
a gust of wind 一阵风 
hard 修饰动词, 表示程度大 study hard 努力学习 
 
9 The bed crashed into the courtyard. It _ c_ the courtyard. 
a. smashed  	b. knocked 	c. struck 	d.exploded crash 	vi.从上往下掉, 摔碎；smash 	vt. 摔碎；knock 	v. 敲击； 
	explode  v.  爆炸；struck 	v. 撞击 
 
11 He glanced at the bits of wood and metal. He ___a___ the bits of wood and metal. a. looked quickly at 	b. had a glimpse of 	c. stared at 	d.watched 
glance at （漫不经心的）扫视,(主动的看) look quickly at 快速地看 had a glimpse of （无意识的）看 stare at 	盯着看 watch 	注视, 密切关注 