
 
	Lesson 44 	Through the forest 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（9） 
forest 	n. 森林 
risk 	n. 危险，冒险 
picnic 	n. 野餐 
edge 	n. 边缘 
strap 	n. 带，皮带 
possession 	n. 所有 
breath 	n. 呼吸 
contents 	n.（常用复数）内有的物品 
mend 	v.  修理 
 
	★ risk 	n. 危险，冒险 
①	n. 危险，风险 
Is there much risk of losing money in doing football pols? 
John took/ran the risk of damaging his bus and drove it into the back of the thieves’car. 约翰冒着撞坏他开的那辆公共汽车的危险把它撞在了小偷们的车的后尾上。
	John saved me at the risk of his own life. 	约翰冒着生命危险救了我。 
②	vt. 冒……危险，使……遭受危险 
We’d better take a taxi. We can’t risk missing the plane. John risked his own life to save me. 
 
★	breath n. 呼吸 out of breath 上气不接下气 waste one's breath  白费口舌 in one breath 片刻, 转眼间 
He finished water in one breath.  他一口气把水喝完了. hold one's breath 屏 住 呼 吸 bad breath 口 臭 You have a bad breath. 你有口臭. 
 
★	contents 	n. (常用复数)内有的物品(具体的东西) 
	contents of the bag 	包里的书 
	More contents! 	(口语) 在吃饭时要求再加些饭菜时可以这样说. 
	content 	n. 内容(抽象) 
content of the text 文章的内容 
 
【Text】 
Mrs. Anne Sterling did not think of the risk she was taking when she ran through a forest after two men. They had rushed up to her while she was having a picnic at the edge of a forest with her children and tried to steal her handbag. In the struggle, the strap broke and, with the bag in their 
 
possession, both men started running through the trees. Mrs. Sterling got so angry that she ran after them. She was soon out of breath, but she continued to run. When she caught up with them, she saw that they had sat down and were going through the contents of the bag, so she ran straight at them. The men got such a fright that they dropped the bag and ran away. 'The strap needs mending,' said Mrs. Sterling later, 'but they did not steal anything.' 
 
参考译文 
安.斯特林夫人在穿过森林追赶两个男人时, 她并没有考虑到所冒的风险. 刚才, 当她和孩子们正在森林边上野餐的时候, 这两个人冲到她跟前, 企图抢走她的手提包. 在争抢中, 手提包的带断了, 包落入这两个人手里, 他们拔腿跑进了树林. 斯特林夫人非常气愤, 向着他们追了过去. 只追了一会儿便上气不接下气了, 但她还是继续追赶. 当她赶上他们时, 发现他们已经坐了下来, 正翻着包里的东西. 于是她直冲过去. 这两个人吓了一跳, 扔下提包逃跑了. “这提包带需要修理, “斯特林夫人事后说道, “不过他们什么也没偷走. “ 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Mrs. Anne Sterling did not think of the risk she was taking when she ran through a forest after two men. think of… 考虑，思考 
Have you ever thought of settleing down in this town? 
take a risk（of doing） 冒……风险 run after 	追赶；追随；追求 
The police are running after a thief. run behind 	在某人后面跑 
I ran behind him. run to 跑向  
2、	They had rushed up to her while she was having a picnic at the edge of a forest with her children and tried to steal her handbag. 
	rush up to sb. 	迎面冲向某人 
up 向上，面对面，与说话人相反方向；down 方向相同，与说话人相同方向 
go down 接着往前走,不用回头 
up to 可以表示地点、时间等“一直到……” 
The child ran up to his mother when he saw her. 
He worked up to nine o’clock in the evening. have a picnic 野餐 at the edge of 在……的边上 
The park lies at the edge of the town. 
 
3、	In the struggle, the strap broke and, with the bag in their possession, both men started running through the trees. 
in one's possession = in the possession of sb. 	为某人所拥有…… I went out of the book shop with book in my possesion. 
The house used to be in my possession, but now it is in the possession of an old lady. 
 
4、	She was soon out of breath, but she continued to run. 
out of breath 上气不接下气，喘不上气 
Tom ran to the shop to get some salt for his mother. When he reached there, he was quite out of breath. continued to do sth. 接着做…… 
 
5、	When she caught up with them, she saw that they had sat down and were going through the contents of the bag, so she ran straight at them. 
	go through 	（仔细地）搜查，在……中搜寻，浏览，翻看(速度较快的看) 
She went through her bag, but she couldn’t find her key. 
catch up with sb. 追上,赶上(强调结果) contents of the bag  包里的东西 
run (straight) at 	（at 强调瞄准,一般与 straight 相连都用 at）  
6、	'The strap needs mending,' said Mrs. Sterling later, 'but they did not steal anything.' need 作“需要”为讲时，后面接的动名词有被动的含义。 
 
【letter writing】 
信封上的地址的书写方式：收信人的姓名和地址必须在信封的中央，称呼总是和姓名连在一起的： 
Mr. James Thompson；James Thompson Esq.；Miss H. Thompson；Mrs. D Thompson；Mr. and Mrs. J. 
Thompson, 
Esq. Esquire 写信时对男性的尊称(放在人名的后面)，等同于 Mr. 但位置不同 Mr.and Mrs.(已婚)，一般夫妇一起邀请 
先写人名，再写地址，写信人的地址写在信封背面，或放在信中 
 
【Key structures】 	 
 	动名词 
1、动名词可以做主语、宾语、介词宾语等
Washing the car made me tired. 
Before leaving the office, he gave me a book. 
I am very keen on cycling. 
	He sat there without saying anything. 	他坐在那里, 一言不发. 
	That’s no excuse for not mending the chair! 	这不是你不修椅子的借口！ 
2、动名词还可以用于“动词+介词”之后 
	look forward to doing sth. 	期待、盼望做某事 
I am looking forward to seeing him tomorrow. be accustomed to doing sth. 习惯于做某事 
	I am accustomed to getting up early. 	我习惯早起. 
	be used to doing sth. 	习惯做某事 
	I am used to getting up early. 	我习惯早起. 
	比较：I used to get up early but I don't anymore. 	我过去常早起, 但现在不再早起了。 
devote to doing sth. 	奉献给某事, 把……奉献给…… devote oneself to doing sth. 	(全身心投入做某事) 
 
She devotes herself to teaching. 
My mother devotes herself to doing homework. 
	object to doing sth. 	反对做某事 
I object to eating out. 	我反对在外面吃饭. get/be tired of doing sth. 	对……厌烦, 作为系动词 get 可与 be 替换 believe in 	信任,信仰 believe in + sb. 	表示信任某人,信仰某人 believe in + doing sth. 	表示我的信条是... 
I belive in taking it easy. （take it easy 轻松,放松,慢慢来） 
accuse sb. of doing sth. 	因某事控告某人（accuse vt. 控告；指控） The police accused him of stealing. 	警方控告他犯有盗窃罪. 
3、在 start，begin，continue 等后面，既可以用不定式又可以用动名词，区别不大： 
I began to learn/learning English two years ago. 
4、在 love，like，prefer 等动词后，用不定式和动名词意义有所区别。 
hate,love,like+doing sth. 	 表示一种习惯(always) 
hate,love,like+to do sth. 	表示某一次性的行为(now) 
would love /like to do sth. 	表示想要, 习惯于在前面加 would 
餐厅服务员习惯会问: “Would you like to…?”，而不会用 “Do you like…?”，他只关心你现在想吃什么, 而不管你平常吃什么。 
	I hate to do sth.… 	不喜欢…… 
I hate to say I have no money , but I really need some. 说明这个人要向你借钱了 
I hate to say but I really have something important to do. 
你想拒绝别人的邀请时可用的句型 prefer…to…结构中只能用动名词 
Why don’t you drive to work instead of walking? I prefer walking to driving. 
5、在 need，want 之后，动名词形式具有被动的含义，相当于被动的不定式：如果以物体做主语，可以直接加动词-ing，表达被动的含义 
My shirt is torn. It needs mending. 我的衬衫撕破了, 需要缝补. Those windows are dirty. They want washing. 那些窗户很脏, 需要洗刷. 
 
 
【Special Difficulties】 catch and run 
catch 主要意思是“抓住、捉住、逮住”，但有时可以表示“（及时）赶上、追上”等： 
He ran quickly to catch the last bus home. 
When she caught up with them, she saw that they were going through the contents of the bag. 
run 的本意是“跑”，后面加上不同的小品词可以表达“追赶，逃跑”等多种含义： 
She has run off with all his money. 
The man ran away with her bag. 
 
【Mutiple choice questions】 
4 They were going through the contents of the bag. ___c___she ran straight at them. 
 
a. For this b. That's because c. That's why d. That's so that's 后一般加特殊疑问词引导的从句，或 that's all 加从句 for  加句子的时候,  习惯上放在主句之后，表示“由于某个理由”，不说 for this  而说 for this reason 
 
5	They got such a fright. They were ___c___. 
a.so frightful 	b.such frightened 	c.so frightened 	d.such fright so +adj./adv.；such +n. （d 应为 such a fright） frightful=terrible 	adj. 糟糕 frightened 	adj. 感到害怕的  
6	The strap needs mending. It ___b___. 
	a. has mended 	b. has to be mended 	c. has been mended 	d. has been mending 
 
10 They tried to steal her handbag. They tried to ___a___her of her handbag. 
	a. rob 	b. steal 	c. be robbed 	d. be stolen 
steal 后面加物（steal sth. from sb.）；rob 的后面加人（rob sb. of sth.） 
 
8 She took a risk. What she did was ___a___. 
a.dangerous 	b.brave 	c.clever 	d.stupid 这里 what 有点类似于汉语中的 “兼语” 的概念，what=the thing that 
The thing that/which surprised me is that my brother will come. 
=What surprised me is that my brother will come. (更多用这种表达) 
What I said is true. 	我所说的话是真的 That is what I heard. 	那就是我所听到的事情 
What I saw made me sad. 
What you said made me sad. 