
 
	Lesson 61 	Trouble with the Hubble 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（17） 
	Hubble 	n. 哈勃 
telescope n. 望远镜 launch v.  发射 space n. 空间 
NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) 国家航空和航天局 
billion 	n. 10 亿 
faulty 	adj. 有错误的 
astronaut 	n. 宇航员 
shuttle 	n. 航天飞机 
Endeavour 	n. “奋进”号 
robot-arm 	n. 机器手 
grab 	v. 抓 
atmosphere 	n. 大气层 
distant 	adj. 遥远的 
galaxy 	n. 星系 
universe 	n. 宇宙 
eagle eye 	鹰眼 
 
★	space 	n. 空间(指宇宙空间) room 	n.  空间（不可数）；房间（可数） 
	Could you make room for me? 	你能为我腾一点空间吗? 
 
★	robot-arm 	n. 机器手 
robot 	n. 机器人, 遥控设备, 自动机械, 机械般工作的人  
★	atmosphere 	n. 大气层 atmosphere 	n. 大气，空气，气氛，氛围 
I went to the New Concept English of New Oriental school for its good atmosphere. 
 
【Text】 
The Hubble telescope was launched into space by NASA on April 20,1990 at a cost of over a billion dollars. Right from the start there was trouble with the Hubble. The pictures it sent us were very disappointing because its main mirror was faulty! NASA is now going to put the telescope right, so it will soon be sending up four astronauts to repair it. The shuttle Endeavour will be taking the astronauts to the Hubble. A robot-arm from the Endeavour will grab the telescope and hold it while the astronauts make the necessary repairs. Of course, the Hubble is above the earth's atmosphere, so it will soon be sending us the clearest pictures of the stars and distant galaxies that we have ever seen. The Hubble will tell us a great deal about the age and size of the universe. By the time you read this, the Hubble's eagle eye will have sent us thousands and thousands of wonderful 
 
pictures. 
 
参考译文 
哈勃望远镜于 1990 年 4 月 20 日由国家航空航天局发射升空, 耗资 10 多亿美元. 从最开始哈勃望远镜
就有问题. 它传送给我们的图像很令人失望, 因为它的主要镜子有误差. 国家航天局准备纠正这一错误, 为此将把 4 名宇航员送入太空修复望远镜. “奋进” 号航天飞机将把宇航员送上哈勃. 当宇航员进行必要的修复工作时, “奋进” 号上的一只机器手将抓住望远镜并托住它. 当然, 哈勃位于地球的大气层之外, 因此, 它很快就会给我们传送我们所见到过的、有关行星和远距离星系的最清晰的照片.     哈勃将告诉我们有关宇宙的年龄和大小的许多事情. 等到你读到这篇文章时, 敏锐的哈勃望远镜已经为我们送来了成千上万张精彩的照片. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1 、 The Hubble telescope was launched into space by NASA on April 20,1990 at a cost of over a billion dollars. 
	at a cost of … 	造价为……，耗资，以……的价格/费用 
He has just built a new house for his family at a cost of $10,000. 
NASA = National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
(美国)国家航空和宇宙航行局（单词縮写一般都是组织或者机构） 
 
2、	Right from the start there was trouble with the Hubble. 
	right from the start 	从最开始（right 起强调作用） 
He didn’t want to work at the firm (right) from the start. trouble with… 关于……有麻烦 
	What's the trouble with you? 	你有什么麻烦? (医生常这样问) 
There is (engine) trouble with my car.  
3、	The pictures it sent us were very disappointing because its main mirror was faulty! fault 	n. 错误 ； faulty 	adj. 有错误的 
Sorry, it's my fault. 
 
4、	NASA is now going to put the telescope right, so it will soon be sending up four astronauts to repair it. put sth. right 修好（故障等），校正，纠正 
Remember to put the lights right tomorrow. send up 	往上送 
 
5 、 A robot-arm from the Endeavour will grab the telescope and hold it while the astronauts make the necessary repairs. 
hold it 	抓住它  
6、	The Hubble will tell us a great deal about the age and size of the universe. a great deal 大量 a great deal of… 大量的…… 
 
7、	By the time you read this, the Hubble's eagle eye will have sent us thousands and thousands of wonderful pictures. 
by the time 	到那时 engle eye 	鹰眼，锐利目光 
His father’s eagle eye is always on him. 
	thousands and thousands of 	成千上万的 
There are hundreds of thousands/thousands and thousands of cars in this city. 
 
【Letter Writing】 
常见的书信开头： 
I have not heard from you for some time, so… 
It was very kind of you to… 
 
【Key structures】 	 
将来完成时、将来进行时和将来完成进行时 
将来完成时的构成：will have done，表示到将来某一时刻已经完成的动作，必须和某个时间状语连用， 
强调到将来某一点时间动作的结束。 
Workers will have completed the new roads by the end of this year. 
将来进行时的构成：will be  doing，表示将来某个时候正在进行的动作或表示计划好的事，陈述将来的事
实。 
They will be arriving here tomorrow. 
将来完成进行时的构成：will have been doing，表示某种状况一直持续到说话人所提及的时间，从某一 
点发生, 一直延续到将来的某一点, 并且将可能延续下去，强调到将来某一点时间动作可能结束或延续。 
By this time next week, I will have been working for this firm for twenty years. By Friday midday, they will have been working on it for seven days. 
（work on sth. 关于……的工作） 
在时间状语从句中，要用现在完成时代替将来完成时： 
By the time I’ve completed this one, I’ll have been writing for six years. 到我写完这本书时，我将已经写了 6 年书了。
When I’ve built this one, I’ll have built five altogether. 
 
【Special Difficulties】
Cost, Price, Value cost 
①	n.  价格，价钱，费用（侧重指某项服务、工程等），成本（复数） at the cost of 以……的费用，造价…… 
They built the bridge at a cost of over $600,000. 
I don’t know the costs of these cars. 我不知道这些车的成本是多少。 
②	vt.  价钱为……，（使）花费（不用于被动语态） 
The new car cost him $5,000. 
How much did it cost to launch the Hubble telescope into space? 
	What does this blouse cost, please? 	请问, 这件衬衣多少钱? 
 
price 
①	n.  价格，价钱（侧重于指某个具体东西或商品的价钱），物价（复数） 
How much is that blouse? Let's ask the price. 
What’s the price of the dress, please? 
	Prices are going up again. 	物价又上涨了。 
②	v. 问……的价钱，查明/查询……的价格；给……定价/标价 
They priced cars for two days before they bought one. 
The dress is priced at $50, but you can have it at $40. 
I want to price the bed linen in a few other shops before I buy any. 我想在买床单之前打听几家商店的价格. value 
①	n. 表示抽象的价值或重要性，价值观（复数） 
The stolen items were of sentimental, rather than financial value. 被盗物品更具有情感上的涵义, 而不是经济上的价值. 
This book is of great value to me. 
His values are different from those of mine. 
②	vt. 尊重，重视 value sth. 	认为……有价值 
	value sth. owned by oneself 	敝帚自珍 
	Value your time. 	珍惜时间 
If you don’t value my advice, I’ll speak no more. 
 
Exercise 练习 
1	There has been a sharp rise in the(price)(cost)(value) of living. 
2	Whenever I buy anything new, my father always asks me the(value)(cost)(price). 
3	If you have to work for something you will(value)(price)(cost) it more. 
4	That house(valued)(cost)(priced) a fortune to build. 
5	Dr. James's work is of enormous(value)(cost)(price) to the community. 
6	Jane has(valued)(cost)(priced) the alternative products and she recommends this one. 7 So far, ten countries have given money towards the(value)(price)(cost) of rebuilding after the earthquake. 
 
1 sharp rise: 大幅上升的 the cost of living 生活的费用 2 price 价格 
3 value : 表示认为有价值 4 fortune : 一大笔财产 cost 花费 
5	community : 社区,社会 value : 价值 of great (enormous)value 有巨大的价值（enormous adj. 巨大的） 
6	alternative 另外的 recommend : 推荐 price sth. 比较价格 
7	towards = to 
the cost of rebuilding 重建费用 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 2 The Hubble telescope _ a_ . 
a.	will tell us a great deal about the universe 
b.	cost a lot but was almost worthless 
c.	will measure the size of the earth 
d.	requires constant care from the astronauts 
constant n. [数、物]常数, 恒量；adj. 不变的, 持续的, 坚决的  
5  A robot-arm will hold the telescope ____ a__ the astronauts to repair it. 
	a. for 	b.so that 	c. so long as 	d.which 
for sb. to do sth. 基本结构 
so that+句子 ；so long as+句子 : 表示只要 ；which + 句子  
11 The main mirror of the Hubble __ d___. 
	a. had problems 	b. was distant 	c. was the clearest 	d. requires repairs 
had problems 有问题 problem with sth. ……出问题 (习惯用法) 
There was a problem with its main mirror. problem 的两个含义：question；trouble reauires repairs 需要修理 
 
12 The Hubble is ____d __ the earth's atmosphere. 
a. below  	b. over 	c. within 	d. outside above 在……之上(凌空) 
	above the earth’s atmosphere 	在大气层的上方 