
 
	Lesson 82 	Monster or fish? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（7） 
monster 	n. 怪物 
sailor 	n. 海员 
sight 	v.  见到 
creature 	n. 动物，生物 
peculiar 	adj. 奇怪的，不寻常的 
shining 	adj. 闪闪发光的 
oarfish 	n. 桨鱼 
 
★ claim 
①	vt. &vi.（对……）提出要求，认领，索取
Has anyone claimed the child/wallet? 
②	vt. 声称，断言 
They claim to have seen monsters in the sea. 
He claimed that Tom had stolen his wallet. 
 
【Text】 
Fishermen and sailors sometimes claim to have seen monsters in the sea. Though people have often laughed at stories told by seamen, it is now known that many of these 'monsters' which have at times been sighted are simply strange fish. Occasionally, unusual creatures are washed to the shore, but they are rarely caught out at sea. Some time ago, however, a peculiar fish was caught near Madagascar. A small fishing boat was carried miles out to sea by the powerful fish as it pulled on the line. Realizing that this was no ordinary fish, the fisherman made every effort not to damage it in any way. When it was eventually brought to shore, it was found to be over thirteen feet long. It had a head like a horse, big blue eyes, shining silver skin, and a bright red tail. The fish, which has since been sent to a museum where it is being examined by a scientist, is called an oarfish. Such creatures have rarely been seen alive by man as they live at a depth of six hundred feet. 
 
参考译文渔夫和水手们有时声称自己看到过海里的妖怪。虽然人们常常对水手们讲的故事付诸一笑，但现在看  来，
人们有时看到的这些“妖怪”很多不过是些奇怪的鱼。一些异常的生物偶尔会被冲到岸上来，但它们  在海上却极少能被捕到。然而不久前，在马达加斯加附近的海里却捕到了一条奇怪的鱼。一条小渔船被一  条咬住钩的强壮的大鱼拖到了几英里以外的海面上。那位渔民意识到这根本不是一条普通的鱼，于是千方  百计不让它受到丝毫伤害。当终于把它弄上岸后，人们发现它身长超过了 13 英尺。它长着一个像马一样的头，有着大的蓝眼睛和闪闪发光的银色皮肤，还有一条鲜红色的尾巴。此鱼叫桨鱼，被送进了博物馆，  现正接受一位科学家的检查。人们很少能看到活着的这类动物，因为它们生活在 600 英尺深的水下。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Fishermen and sailors sometimes claim to have seen monsters in the sea. to have seen 是不定式的完成式结构。不定式的完成式用于不定式的动作发生在谓语动作之前的情况。不定式的完成式常用于 believe，declare，find，say，see，know，think，understand 等动词之后（这些动词常用被动语态）： 
I’m sorry to have taken up so much of your time. 
He is thought/believed to have been killed in an air crash. I meant/intended to have invited him, but I forgot to do so. 我本想/本打算邀请他的，可是我忘记了。 
I hope/plan to have finished by 12. 
我希望/计划到 12 点钟以前就已完成。（相当于将来完成时） 
 
2、	Though people have often laughed at stories told by seamen, it is now known that many of these 'monsters' which have at times been sighted are simply strange fish. at times 	有时，偶尔 
At times I feel that he is not honest.  
3、	Occasionally, unusual creatures are washed to the shore, but they are rarely caught out at sea. 
	out at sea 	在远海，在外海 
Don’t sail out to sea in this weather.  
4、	Realizing that this was no ordinary fish, the fisherman made every effort not to damage it in any way. no 的否定意味比 not (a/an)要重（用于名词或形容词之前、系动词 be 之后） They are no friends of ours. 他们根本不是我们的朋友。 
	This is no easy work. 	这绝对不是件容易干的活。 
 
5、	Such creatures have rarely been seen alive by man as they live at a depth of six hundred feet. 
creature 指包含人在内的“生物，动物”。指人时它可以表示怜爱等感情，多用于指女性： 
The poor creature has suffered a lot during that time. 
 
【Letter Writing】结束语： 
I shall be looking forward to hearing from/seeing you soon. I hope you will soon settle down in your (new job, school, etc.). 
 
【Special Difficulties】 Laugh and Laugh at 
	laugh 	v. 笑 
Everybody laughed when the circus clown made his appearance. 
	laugh at 	嘲笑…… 
Don’t laugh at me. 
 
Wash and Wash up 
 
wash 
① v. 洗，洗涤 
I must get up and wash. wash oneself 	洗澡 
Sally can almost wash herself now. 
② v. 冲走，卷走 
Occasionally, unusual creatures are washed to the shore. 
The little wooden house was washed away by the floods. 
wash up 
①	v. 洗餐具 
When you phoned, she was busy washing up (the dishes). 
②	v. 把……冲上岸 
The dead body of a huge fish has been washed up on the shore.  