
 
	Lesson 62 	Affer the fire 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（15） 
control 	n. 控制 
smoke 	n. 烟 
desolate 	adj. 荒凉的 
threaten 	v. 威胁 
surrounding 	adj. 周围的 
destruction 	n. 破坏，毁灭 
flood 	n. 洪水，水灾 
authority 	n. （常用复数）当局 
grass-seed 	n. 草籽 
spray 	v.  喷撒 
quantity 	n. 量 
root 	n. 根 
century 	n. 世纪 
patch 	n. 小片 
blacken 	v. 变黑，发暗 
 
★ control 	n. 控制 in control 	在控制之内 under control 	在控制之下,被控制 out of control 	失控 control<v.> sth. 
I can control it. =I can manage it. 	我能对付(口语) under arrest <n.> 	被逮捕 
 
★	smoke n. 烟（雾） full of smoke 充满烟雾 smokey adj. 多烟的（名词加-y, 变为形容词） 
	smokey area 吸烟区 ； nonsmokey area 	禁烟区 
rain – rainy ； cloud - cloudy 
	smoker 	n. 抽烟的人 
heavy smoker 烟瘾重的人 ； nonsmoker 不抽烟的人 
	smoke 	v. 吸烟 
Don't smoke! = No smoking! 
He smoked heavily. 
	smoking area / smoking room 	吸烟室 
smoking apartment 火车上的吸烟车厢 cigarette = cigar n. 香烟  
★	desolate 	adj. 荒凉的 
desolate  adj.  荒凉的（与地方相连，表示无人居住,  荒无人烟的）；极度孤独的(与人相连时) lonely adj. 孤独的，荒凉的，偏僻的（与地方连表示孤零零的，但并不表示无人居住） 
 
★	threaten 	v. 威胁的 
threaten to do sth. 	威胁着要做……（与人相连）；有迹象表明…… It threatened to rain. 	有迹象表明天要下雨了。 threaten sb. with sth. 以……来威胁/恐吓某人 
The thief threatened him with a knife. The whole village is threatened with destruction. 
 
★	surrounding 	adj. 周围的 surroundings 	n. 环境(在周边的事物) 
	atmosphere 	n. 大气层, 氛围(在周边的人文环境) 
 
★	destruction 	n. 破坏, 毁灭 destroy 	v. 破坏 destructive 	adj. 毁灭性的 construct 	v. 建设(为……创造更好的条件) 
	construction 	 n. 建设, 建筑 
	construction bank 	建设银行
constructive adj. 建设性的(意见) build v. 建设(具体的建某物) 
 
★	flood n. 洪水, 水灾 flood = floods 都对，都可以用，无区别 
 
★	authority  	n. 当局(常用复数 authorities) authority 	n. 权威（单数） 
 
★	spray v. 喷撒 spray sth. over/on 往……上喷洒 spray water over/on flower spray grass-seed over/on the ground 
 
★	quantity  	n. （数）量 quantities of  	 大量的…… quality 	n. 质量 
	sth. with good quality 	具有好质量的东西 
 
★	root 	n. 根 
	What is the root cause? 	根本原因是什么？ 
root of… ……的根 
	take root 	生根 
come out 长出来 
shoot come out 发芽（shoot n. 芽） flower come out 开花 
get out 	出去  
★	patch 	n. 小片，颜色和周围不同的部分 patch 	n. (平面上的)一片, 补丁(本意) 
What is that yellow patch on the wall? 墙上那块黄斑是什么？ a patch of 一小片 ；patches of 许多片 
There are patches of cloud in the sky. 
	a piece of / a bit of / a sheet of 	一片，一块…… 
 
	★ blacken 	v. 变黑，发暗 
	The smoke has blacken the walls. 	烟把墙熏黑了。 
-en 后缀表示动词，译为“使……变得……” weak adj. 虚弱的 ——> weaken v. 使……变弱，削弱
复合词（由两个词组合而成一个词），如 fireman 
派生词（加前缀或后缀的词）如-tion —— 名词后缀； - less —— 形容词后缀 
 
【Text】 
Firemen had been fighting the forest fire for nearly three weeks before they could get it under control. A short time before, great trees had covered the countryside for miles around. Now, smoke still rose up from the warm ground over the desolate hills. Winter was coming on and the hills threatened the surrounding villages with destruction, for heavy rain would not only wash away the soil but would cause serious floods as well. When the fire had at last been put out, the forest authorities ordered several tons of a special type of grass-seed which would grow quickly. The seed was sprayed over the ground in huge quantities by aeroplanes. The planes had been planting seed for nearly a month when it began to rain. By then, however, in many places the grass had already taken root. In place of the great trees which had been growing there for centuries patches of green had begun to appear in the blackened soil. 
 
参考译文消防队员们同那场森林大火搏斗了将近 3 个星期才最后把火势控制住. 就在不久之前, 参天大树还覆盖着方圆数英里的土地. 而现在, 发热的地面上仍然升腾着烟雾, 弥漫在荒凉的ft丘上. 冬季即将来临, 这些 ft丘对周围的村庄具有毁灭性的威胁, 因为大雨不仅会冲走土壤, 而且还会引起严重的水灾. 在大火最后被扑灭后, 森林管理当局订购了好几吨一种生长迅速的特殊类型的草籽. 飞机把这种草籽大量地撒播在地上. 飞机撒播近一个月后, 开始下起雨来. 然而到那时, 很多地方的草已经生了根. 一片片的绿草开始出现在这片烧焦的土地上, 代替了多少世纪以来一直生长在那里的参天大树. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Firemen had been fighting the forest fire for nearly three weeks before they could get it under control. fight sth. 	和……作搏斗 
get  it  under  control 表示“使它得到控制”，get 有“使……处于某种状态”的含义，“get+宾语+介词短
语”作宾补: 
	The Government can no longer keep prices under control. 	政府已控制不住物价。 
Get the room in order. 
 
2、A short time before, great trees had covered the countryside for miles around. a short time before 和 a short time ago 都可以与段时间相连 
a short time before 	不久以前，从过去某一点时间算起，一段时间以前 a short time ago 	过去某段时间，从现在算起，一段时间以前 
	for miles around 	方圆几英里（around 表示“在周围，向四周”） 
This is the only modern building for miles around. 
 
3、Now, smoke still rose up from the warm ground over the desolate hills. 
	rise up (from) 	升上来 
	smoke rise up 	(烟、雾)弥漫 
 
4 、 Winter was coming on and the hills threatened the surrounding villages with destruction, for heavy rain would not only wash away the soil but would cause serious floods as well. 
	winter  was coming on 	冬季即将来临 (季节的来临的通用表达式)，come on 的过去进行时形式表示 
的是过去将来时，它在这里表示季节的“到来，来临”： 
When spring comes on, there will be flowers everywhere. I was still in the forest when night came on. 
	wash away 	冲掉，冲走，洗掉 
A wooden bridge was washed away by the flood. 
I can’t wash the spot away. 
 
5 、 When the fire had at last been put out, the forest authorities ordered several tons of a special type of grass-seed which would grow quickly. put out 	扑灭 order 定购 
type 强调与其他同类的东西有明显不同的特征的种类，与 kind 有区别 
 
6、	The seed was sprayed over the ground in huge quantities by aeroplanes. quantity 单数时仅表示“数量”，既可以用于表示多也可以用于表示少： 
They drank a large /great /small quantity of beer last night. quantity 复数时表示“大量”： 
He bought books in (large) quantities. 
 
7、	By then, however, in many places the grass had already taken root. 
take root 表示“生根”，这个短语也可以表示某处思想/想法等“扎根”： 
This type of grass takes root easily. 
The idea has taken root in his mind. 
8、	In place of the great trees which had been growing there for centuries patches of green had 
 begun to appear in the blackened soil. 
	in place of 	替代，取代 (只能指代位置、空间，原来放的东西现在不在了) 
In place of a cup , I put a vase there. 以前放的是茶杯，现在放的是花瓶。
Jane answered the phone in place of Mary. 
	instead of 	替代+没做的事 
Instead of staying home, I went to school.  （此句就不能用“in place of”，而指地点空间时，既可以用 
“in place of”也可以用“instead of”。） 
 
【Summary writing】 
2	Had all the great trees been burnt or not? 	Was there danger that heavy rain would cause serious floods or not? Would the floods destroy the surrounding villages or not?(Now that… which) 
3	Did the forest authorities order grass-seed to prevent this or not ? For how long was it sprayed over the ground by planes?(To prevent this…which…) 
4	Did it begin to rain or not? Where had the grass taken root? (By the time that…) 
 
2	Now that all the great trees had been burnt, there was danger that heavy rain would cause serious floods which destroy the surrounding villages. 
	now that 	既然 ； which 定语从句 
3	To prevent this the forest authorities ordered grass-seed which was sprayed over the ground by planes for nearly a month. 
	to prevent… 	为了预防…… 
4	By the time it began to rain, the grass had taken root in the soil. 
	by the time(that) 	到……时候为止 (that 可以省略)，应理解为“before” 
 
【Key structures】 	 
过去完成时和过去完成进行时 
过去完成进行时的构成：had been +现在分词过去完成进行时用于强调某动作在过去更早的某一段时间内一直在进行，并对过去某一时刻产生结果，  过去完成进行时也可用来表示过去经常重复的动作，还可以表示根据直接或间接的证据而得出结论。与它   经常连用的表示时间的词有 before，for，since，all day 等。 
She was very tired. She had been typing letters all day. 
Jill was angry. Jim had been phoning her every night for a whole week. Her eyes were red. It was obvious she had been crying. 在包含间接引语的句子中，如果引述词是过去时态，则现在完成进行时要改为过去完成进行时。过去完成时与过去完成进行时有时可以互换。但需要表示某个工作已经完成时，只能用过去完成时。 
When I arrived, they’d alredy put the fire out. 
 
【Special Difficulties】
Control and Check control 
①	vt. 控制，指挥，支配，管理 
Don’t try to control other people. 
 
②	n.  控制（能力），支配（能力） 
It’s hard to keep the number of people coming into the country under control. 
	check 	vt. 检查，核对，查看 
They’re going to check our passports. 
 
Great and Big 
	great 	adj. 大的(强调重要性)，伟大的，重大的，重要的 
Frank has just made a great decision. 
	big 	adj. 大的(强调面积、体积、规模上的大) 
Sam is a big man. 
 
Soil and Ground 
	soil 	n. 泥土(能让植物生长的)，土，土地，土壤 
Trees and grass grow quickly in rich soil. 
	ground 	n. 地表，地面(与土壤无关)，场地，土地 
He threw the cup to the ground. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
6 The planes ____c___nearly a month to plant the seed. 
a. did 	b. made 	c.took 	d. had 花费时间的表达：如果人作主语用 spend；用时间表达用 take 
 
9   Large ____ d__ of seed were used. 	
	a. weights 	b. measures 	c. tons 	d. amounts 
	weight 	n.  重量 ；measures 	v.  测量 ；tons 
	large amounts 	大量的，修饰不可数名词 	n. 吨 （several tons） 
 
11  Patches of green had begun to appear. There was green grass ____d __ _. a. every where 	b. only in one or two places 
c. in one place d. here and there patches 许多快 
everywhere 每一寸土地上都长着东西 here and there 这一块, 那一块, 很多快, 不一定是每一寸 