
 
	Lesson 83 	After the elections 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（9） 
election 	n. 选举 
former 	adj. 从前的 
defeat 	v. 打败 
fanatical 	adj. 狂热的 
opponent 	n. 反对者，对手 
radical 	adj. 激进的 
progressive 	adj. 进步的 
ex- 	prefix（前缀，用于名词前）前…… 
suspicious 	adj. 怀疑的  
★	ex- 	prefix（前缀，用于名词前）前……（相当于 former） ex-husband 	前夫； ex-wife 	前妻；ex-taxi-driver 前出租汽车司机 ex-manager 	前任经理； ex-headmaster 	前任校长 
 
★	suspicious 	adj. 怀疑的 
①	adj. 猜疑的，认为可疑的，对……起疑心的，多疑的
Customs officers are suspicious of nervous-looking travelers. 
Don’t be so suspicious. Everything’s all right. 
②	adj. 可疑的，令人起疑的 
You get a lot of suspicious-looking people in this bar. The car crash looks suspicious. 
 
【Text】 
The former Prime Minister, Mr. Wentworth Lane, was defeated in the recent elections. He is now retiring from political life and has gone abroad. My friend, Patrick, has always been a fanatical opponent of Mr. Lane's Radical Progressive Party. After the elections, Patrick went to the former Prime Minister's house. When he asked if Mr. Lane lived there, the policeman on duty told him that since his defeat, the ex-Prime Minister had gone abroad. On the following day, Patrick went to the house again. The same policeman was just walking slowly past the entrance, when Patrick asked the same question. Though a little suspicious this time, the policeman gave him the same answer. The day after, Patrick went to the house once more and asked exactly the same question. This time, the policeman lost his temper. 'I told you yesterday and the day before yesterday,' he shouted, 'Mr. Lane was defeated in the elections. He has retired from political life and gone to live abroad!" 'I know,' answered Patrick, 'but I love to hear you say it!' 
 
参考译文 
前首相温特沃兹.莱恩先生在最近的大选中被击败。他现在退出了政界，到国外去了。我的朋友帕特里  克一直是莱恩先生的激进党的强烈反对者。大选结束后，帕特里克来到了前首相的住处。当他询问莱恩先  生是否住在那里时，值班的警察告诉他这位前首相落选后出国去了。第二天，帕特里克再次来到首相的住  处。昨天的那位警察正从门口慢慢走过，帕特里克上前问了和昨天同样的问题。虽然那位警察这次有点疑  心，但还是对他作了同样的回答。第三天，帕特里克又去了，提出了同前两天完全一样的问题。这一次警察火了。
“我昨天和前天都告诉过您了，”他大叫着，“莱恩先生在大选中被击败了，他已经退出了政界去国外了！” 
“这我都知道，”帕特里克说，“可我就是喜欢听你说出这此！” 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	After the elections 
	the elections 	大选（英文中 election 常用复数形式，后接表示复数的动词，用来指全国性的选举； 
一般的选举用单数） 
He hopes to defeat his rival in next year’s elections.  
2、	The former Prime Minister, Mr. Wentworth Lane, was defeated in the recent elections. former 	adj. 以前的，从前的，前任的（后跟名词） 
Yesterday, he received a letter from his former wife/English teacher. 
	Prime Minister 	首相 
 
3、	Though a little suspicious this time, the policeman gave him the same answer. 
这是一个让步状语从句。如果从句的主语和主句的相同而谓语带系动词 be，则主语+be 可省略；但原 
因状语从句的省略形式要带分词 being： 
If possible, please let me know by this evening. 如果可能的话，请今晚以前告诉我。 
Being worried about his child, he walked up and down in the room. 
 
4、	This time, the policeman lost his temper. lost his temper 发脾气 
 
【Letter Writing】结束语： 
I am very sorry for all the trouble this has caused you. I wish you good luck/every success in… 
 
【Special Difficulties】
Temper and Mood temper 
①	n. 脾气，性情 
This time, the policeman lost his temper. 
Whatever happens, remember to keep our temper. 
My sister is of a calm/quick temper. 我姐姐/妹妹性情平和/脾气急躁。 
	The boss is in a temper today. 	老板今天脾气不好。 
②	n. 心情，情绪（与mood 同义） 
That morning he was in a good mood/temper. 
	mood 	n.  心情，情绪；有意/想要（做某事）（不能用 temper） 
When he is in a bad temper, he gets angry easily. But when he is in a bad mood, he likes to sit alone. （bad 
 
mood 和 bad temper 稍有区别）当他脾气不好时，他很容易生气。但当他心情不好时，他喜欢独自坐着。 
At that time I was not in the mood for talking/to talk. （不能用 temper） 
Although Jeremy is well-known for his great sense of humour, he is in no mood for telling funny stories today. （不能用 temper）  