
 
	Lesson 68 	Persistent 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（3） persistent 	adj. 坚持的，固执的 avoid 	v. 避开 insist 	v. 坚持做  
★	persistent 	adj. 坚持的, 固执的 stubborn 	adj. 顽固的, 固执的, 坚定的, 坚决的, 难应付的, 难处理的 
You are stubborn. 	你这个死脑筋 persist 	v. 坚持(不顾阻拦一味的坚持): persist in doing sth. He persist in making noise. 
 
★	avoid 	v. 避开 
	avoid doing sth. 	避免做…… 
 
★	insist 	v. 坚持认为，坚持说（是人的一种态度） 
①	vt. &vi. 坚持，坚决认为 insist on doing sth. 坚持做…… 
My brother insist on going with me. 
He insists on the importance of the meeting. 
persevere 	v. 坚持，坚持不懈地努力(褒义词) persevere in sth./doing sth. 
We should persevere in studying English. perseverance 	n. 坚持不懈 
②	vt. &vi. 坚决主张/要求，一定要 I insist on speaking to the manager. My wife insists that I (should) have my hair cut. 
 
【Text】 
I crossed the street to avoid meeting him, but he saw me and came running towards me. It was no use pretending that I had not seen him, so I waved to him. I never enjoy meeting Nigel Dykes. He never has anything to do. No matter how busy you are, he always insists on coming with you. I had to think of a way of preventing him from following me around all morning. 
'Hello, Nigel,' I said. 'Fancy meeting you here!' 
'Hi, Elizabeth,' Nigel answered. 'I was just wondering how to spend the morning -- until I saw you. You're not busy doing anything, are you?' 
'No, not at all,' I answered. 'I'm going to...' 
'Would you mind my coming with you?' he asked, before I had finished speaking. 
'Not at all,' I lied, 'but I'm going to the dentist.' 
'Then I'll come with you,' he answered. 'There's always plenty to read in the waiting room!’ 
 
参考译文我穿过马路以便避开他, 但他看到我并朝我跑过来. 若再装作没看见他已是没有用了, 我只好向他招手。我就怕遇到奈杰尔·戴克斯. 他从来都是无事可做, 不管你多忙, 他总是坚持要跟你去。我得想办法不让他整个上午缠着我. 
“你好, 奈杰尔, 想不到在这儿见到你. “我说. 
“你好, 伊丽莎白, “奈杰尔回答说, “我正不知道怎么消磨这一上午呢, 正好见到你. 你不忙, 是吗?” “不, 不忙, 我打算去……” 我回答. 
“我跟你一道去行吗?” 没等我说完话他就问道. 
“没关系, 但我准备去牙医那里. “我说了个谎. 
“那我也跟你去, 候诊室里总有很多东西可供阅读!” 他回答. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、I crossed the street to avoid meeting him, but he saw me and came running towards me. cross 	v. 穿过 
I cross the garden. 
	across 	adv.&prep. 穿过 
I go across the garden. 
	avoid doing sth. 	避免…… 
come running towards sb. 	向某人跑过来  
2、It was no use pretending that I had not seen him, so I waved to him. 
It is (of) no use doing… 做……是没有用处的，做……是徒步的/无益的 
	It is no use pretending … 	假装……是没有用了
It is no use crying over the spilled milk.        覆水难收 It is no use punishing him. wave to sb.       向某人招手 
 
3 、 I never enjoy meeting Nigel Dykes. enjoy doing sth. 喜 欢 做 …… appreciate sth./doing sth. 喜欢做…… 
 
4、He never has anything to do. 
用不定式做定语, 修饰 anything，不定式放在不定代词后面 anything to do sth. 任何要做的事 	
anything to eat sth. 可以吃的东西 ； anything to drink 	可以喝的东西 
 
5、No matter how busy you are, he always insists on coming with you. 
no matter 常与how，when，where，what，who 等引导的从句连用，译为“无论……” 
No matter how old you are,… 
No matter where you are,… 
No matter who you are,… 
No matter how tired you are, your children insisted on listening to stories. 
 
	insist on doing sth. 	坚持做…… 
 
6、I had to think of a way of preventing him from following me around all morning. 
think of a way of doing sth. 	想一个做某事的方法 think of a way of solving 
prevent sb. (from) doing sth. 	阻止某人做某事, 让某人不做某事 stop sb. from doing sth. 让某人不做某事 keep sb. from doing sth. 	 让某人不做某事(保持不做某事) forbid sb. to do sth. 	禁止某人做某事 
 
7、Fancy meeting you here! 
	=Imagine meeting you here! 	真想不到会在这见到你! （fancy＝imagine） 
“fance+名词”表示惊讶 
 
★ fance 
①	vt. 设想，想像 
Fancy Ian not knowing the answer to such an easy question! 
②	vt. 想要，喜欢（往往用于指个人爱好） 
It’s a fine day and I fancy driving down to the coast. 
 
8、	You're not busy doing anything, are you? be busy doing sth. 忙着做…… 反意疑问句的回答, 根据事实回答 
 
9、	Would you mind my coming with you? 
“Would/Do you mind +动名词/if 引导的从句”用来表示客气的请求或征求意见，表示同意/不介意时，用“No, not at all”或“Certainly not”回答；不同意时往往用一些委婉的说法，如“I’m sorry, but…”等回答，不用“yes, I so”。 
Would you mind if I open the windows? 
Certainly not. /Sorry, but it’s cold here. 
mind (sb’s) +doing sth. 介意某人做某事 
-ing   的逻辑主语有四种形式，分为两大类 
① 作为代词, 可以用人称代词的宾格, 又可以用形容词性物主代词 ② 作为名词, 可以保持本身不变, 也可以变成名词所有格 
作主语时必须是所有格(名词所有格, 形容词性物主代词), 但作宾语时可以用所有格, 也可用普通格 
(人称代词宾格) 
Would you mind my parents' having dinner with me? 
Would you mind me opening the door? 
Would you mind my/me smoking? Would you mind me making myself at home? 你介意我把这儿当成家吗? 
 
【Composition】 
	1 	There was a dentist nearby. She knew him well. Elizabeth decided to go there. She would 
 
explain what had happened.(As…whom…in order to) 
3 Elizabeth left. The dentist went into the waiting room.‘Do you want to have your teeth examined?’he 
askeb Nigel. (After…and asked Nigel if…) 
 
1 as(因为) whom(引导定语从句)…in order to (目的状语) 
There was a dentist nearby whom she knew well Elizabeth decided to go there in order to explain what had happened. 
3 Afrer Elizabeth left, the dentist went into the waiting room and asked Nigel if he wanted to have his teeth examined. 
 
【Key structure】 	 
动名词的用法 
有些动词后可以用动名词作宾语，但不能用不定式。这些动词包括 avoid，admit，deny，fancy，finish， 
enjoy，mind（在乎，在意），suggest，stand（容忍）等。 
有些结构通常要接动名词，如 busy，worth，it is no/little use，bored with，interested in，insist on， 
prevent…from 等： 
I was looking forward to reading those books. 
Well, you can’t read them, so it’s no use thinking about them. 
动名词可以有自己的逻辑主语（即动作执行者，而不是句子的主语）： 
Please excuse his not writing to you. Do you mind my smoking? 
come 和 go 之后可以跟与户外活动相关的动名词（climbing，driving，fishing，riding，shopping，walking 等），表示建议、邀请或叙事。 
There’s no point in my coming climbing with you. 
我和你们去爬ft毫无意义。 （there’s no point in =it is no use）感知动词（hear，see，fell，watch 等）后面既可以跟宾语加分词结构，也可以跟宾语加不带 to 的不定式。现在分词往往强调动作正在发生，用于叙述中时使人身临其境；不定式则可以表示动作发生了或过程  结束了。
有时它们之间的区别不大，可以互相替换使用。 
 
【语法精粹】动名词复合结构：由名词所有格或物主代词与动名词构成 
动名词复合结构多作主语或宾语, 作主语时必须是所有格(名词所有格, 形容词性物主代词), 但作宾语
时可以用所有格, 也可用普通格(人称代词宾格) 
His leaving is a great loss. 他的离去是一个很大的损失
Mother dislikes my(me) working late. 妈妈不喜欢我工作很迟
Mother dislikes my sleeping late. 
John's having seen her did not make her worried. 约翰已经见到她的事实, 没有让她感到担心 
后面可以接动词-ing 的词：介词；某些动词，如 avoid, enjoy, finish, It is no use, prevent sb from, fancy, 
imagine, escape, risk, allow，deny, appreciate, complete, delay, mind, practice, resent, risk, suggest, permit… insist on doing, persist in doing, persevere in doing, give up doing 
某些词加逻辑主语是，要用不定式作宾语，如： 
 allow+doing sth.(动名词作宾语) ；allow sb. to do sth.(不定式作宾语) advise sb. to do sth. ；advise doing sth. 这类动词常见如：advise，allow，permit，recommend, etc. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 6 He insisted__b__ with her. 
(a) to go (b)that he should go (c) to going (d) in going insist on doing sth.  坚持做…… insist +从句(should +原形) （用虚拟语气）  
9 She didn't pretend she hadn't seen him. She didn't __c__she hadn't. 
(a) make as if  (b) do as if (c) act as if (d) conduct as if as if… 似乎, 好像…… 
do as if (不这么用) 
act as if … 做得好象…… conduct+oneself 	表现  
10 She waved to him. She c__him. 
(a)shook 	 	(b)saluted 	(c)greeted 	(d)called salute 	v. 问候(军人向长官的)行军礼, 敬礼 greet 	v. 问候  
12 She lied to him. What she said was __a__. 
(a) false 	 	(b)true 	(c)lie 	(d) wrong lie to sb. 	向某人撒谎 false 	adj. 错误的, 虚伪的, 假的, 无信义的, 伪造的, 人工的, 不老实的 lie 	n. 谎言（可数名词，tell a lie） 
What she said was a lie. 