
 
	Lesson 90 	What's for supper? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（15） 
chip 	n. 油煎土豆片 
overfish 	v. 过度捕捞 
giant 	adj. 巨大的 
terrify 	v. 吓，使恐怖 
diver 	n. 潜小员 
oil rig 	石油钻塔 
wit 	n. （复数）理智，头脑 
cage 	n. 笼 
shark 	n. 鲨鱼 
whale 	n. 鲸 
variety 	n. 品种 
cod 	n. 鳕 
skate 	n. 鳐 
factor 	n. 因素 
crew 	n. 全体工作人员 
 
★	overfish 	v. 过度捕捞 over 做前缀，表示“过度的” overdressed 	打扮的过了份 ；well-dressed 	打扮的很好 I overcook the rice. 	我把饭做糊了。 
	You overdid it. 	你过分了。 
 
★	giant adj. 巨大的 giant = huge quantity 
big/large/great/huge/immense/fantastic 
tremendous 	adj. 巨大的（大的让人不相信，惊讶） enormous 	adj. 巨大的（大的让人不相信，惊讶） 
This is a tremendous shoe. 
This is tremendous and enormous. 
	giant 	n. 巨人；adj. 像巨人一样的 
 
★	terrify 	v. 吓，使恐怖 terrify/horrify 	恐惧（主语是吓人者，宾语是被吓者） 
The thief/robber terrified me. The snake terrified me. 
	fear/be afraid of 	害怕……（主语是人） 
	frighten/scare 	吓了一跳（主语是物，吓了一跳，但很快就恢复了平静，主语是吓人者，宾语是被 吓
者） 
	You frighten me. 	你吓了我一跳 
 
★	wit 	n.（复数）理智，头脑
	out of one's wits 	吓个半死 
The snake terrified me out of my wits. 
	She was frightened out of her wits by the great fire. 	大火吓得她惊慌失措。 
	Are you out of your wits? 	你疯了吗？ 
beat sb. to mummy 	打个半死，失去理智，惊慌失措  
★	variety 	n. 品种（品种的多样性） variety show 	综艺节目 
various = all kinds of 	adj.  各种各样的  
★	crew 	n. 全体工作人员（指在飞机上或船上的工作人员） staff 	n. 办公室的全体工作人员 crew 和staff 属于集合名词，可能会做单数，可能会做复数。 
 
★	special 
①	adj. 特殊的，特别的，独特的 
He received special care while in Paris. 
②	adj. 专门的，特制的，专用的 
Special cages are made to protect them from giant fish. 
 
【Text】 
Fish and chips has always been a favourite dish in Britain, but as the oceans have been overfished, fish has become more and more expensive. So it comes as a surprise to learn that giant fish are terrifying the divers on North Sea oil rigs. Oil rigs have to be repaired frequently and divers, who often have to work in darkness a hundred feet under water, have been frightened out of their wits by giant fish bumping into them as they work. Now they have had special cages made to protect them from these monsters. The fish are not sharks or killer whales, but favourite eating varieties like cod and skate which grow to unnatural sizes, sometimes as much as twelve feet in length. Three factors have caused these fish to grow so large: the warm water round the hot oil pipes under the sea; the plentiful supply of food thrown overboard by the crews on the rigs; the total absence of fishing boats around the oil rigs. As a result, the fish just eat and eat and grow and grow in the lovely warm water. Who eats who? 
 
参考译文油煎鱼加炸土豆片一直是英国人喜爱的一道菜，但是随着海洋里的滥捕滥捞，鱼已经变得越来越昂贵。  因
此，听说北海石油钻井平台上的潜水员受到巨型鱼类的恐吓，确实很让人吃惊。钻井平台需要经常修理，  潜水员常常要在水面 100 英尺以下摸黑工作，他们曾在工作时被撞到他们身上的大鱼吓得惊惶失措。现在他们有了特制的笼子，用来保护他们免受大鱼的侵袭。这些鱼并不是鲨鱼或逆戟鲸，而是深受人们喜爱的   食用鱼品种，如鳕鱼和鳐鱼，只不过它们长得出奇地大，有时长达 12 英尺。这些鱼能长得这么大是由 3 个因素造成的：海底热的输油管道附近的温暖的海水；钻井平台工作人员抛到海里充足的食物；钻井平台   周围根本没有捕鱼船只。结果是，这些鱼就在可爱的温暖的水流中吃呀吃，长呀长。究竟谁吃谁呢？【课文讲解】 
1、	What's for supper? 
What's for breakfast? I have eggs/nothing for breakfast. 
 
2、	Fish and chips has always been a favourite dish in Britain, but as the oceans have been overfished, fish has become more and more expensive. 
fish and chips（鱼和炸土豆片，传统英国食物，是一道菜）被看作是一个整体，因此，虽然 chips 是复数形式，它后面却要跟动词的单数形式。 
dish 在这里指“一盘菜”或“菜肴”、“食品”： 
	I like French dishes. 	我喜欢（吃）法国菜。 
Would you like a sweet dish? 您要一盘甜食吗？ more and more 越来越……（多音节用more and more 加原级） more and more interesting 
I love you more and more each day as time goes by. 随着时间的流逝我每一天越来越爱你。 
fatter and fatter 	越来越胖（单音节直接加 er,然后用 and 连接）  
3、So it comes as a surprise to learn that giant fish are terrifying the divers on North Sea oil rigs. it comes as a surprise + to do sth. /that 某事令人惊讶 
It comes as a surprise that it rains/snows. 
It comes as a surprise to have four lessons in three hours. 令人吃惊的表达： 
①	to one’s surprise 
②	The most surprising thing about it is that 
③	get a surprise 
④	What a surprise it is 
⑤	It comes as a surprise + to do sth. /that  
4、Oil rigs have to be repaired frequently and divers, who often have to work in darkness a hundred feet under water, have been frightened out of their wits by giant fight bumping into them as they work. 
bump into 
①	碰上，撞上 
Wandering in darkness, the drunk bumped into a policeman. 那醉汉在黑夜中闲荡时撞到了一个警察的身上。 
②	偶然遇见，碰见（多用于口语） 
	I bumped into Jane at the conference. 	我开会时碰见了简。 
 
5、Now they have had special cages made to protect them from these monsters. 
	protect sb. from + n. 	保护……使之不受侵害（protect 常与 from 或 against 连用） 
This coat will protect you against the cold. 
 
He tried to protect the child from the rain/the dog. 
 
6 、 The fish are not sharks or killer whales, but favourite eating varieties like cod and skate which grow to unnatural sizes, sometimes as much as twelve feet in length. not…but… 	不是……而是…… 
eating 	adj. 供食用的；宜生食的 favourite eating variety 深受人们喜爱的食用的品种 Eating corn is quite sweet. 	食用玉米很香甜。 
These are eating apples, and those are cooking apples/ones. 这些是生吃的苹果，那些是烹饪用的苹果。 
grow to 长到 
as much as 像……一样（最大限度）+ 数字 as much as five meters tall 
as far as + 从句 
as far as I could get 
长宽高深的表达方式 
①	数词 + 量词 +adj. two feet deep 
②	数词 +  量词 + in +  名词 
long - length ；high - height ；wide – width ；deep - depth two feet in depth 
 
7、Three factors have caused these fish to grow so large: the warm water round the hot oil pipes under the sea; the plentiful supply of food thrown overboard by the crews on the rigs; the total absence of fishing boats around the oil rigs. 
cause sb. to do sth. 	导致…… grow + adj. 	变得…… grow large 
plentiful supply of… ……的充足供应 plentiful supply of money/workers 
throw sth. overboard = throw away 扔 掉 throw the rubbish overboard 
total 在这里表示“完全的，彻底的”（相当于 complete） 
His letter is a total surprise to her. 
That girl is a total stranger to me. 
	absence of 	缺少，不存在 
These plants don’t grow well because of the absence of rain/sunshine. 
total absence of… 	完全没有…… total absence of mind 	心不在焉 
The total absence of mind caused him to fail the exam. the total absence of order… 没有秩序 
 
8、As a result, the fish just eat and eat and grow and grow in the lovely warm water. 
 
	as a result = so 	结果是，因此 
He didn’t work hard at mathematics. As a result, he failed in the examination. 
	as a result of = because of 	因为…… 
As a result of his hard work, he succeeded. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 
被看作整体的、用 and 连接的两个名词 
当主语是 and 连接的两个名词时，谓语通常用复数形式： 
An umbrella and a suitcase are still needed. 
有些名词由于经常在一起连用，就把它们看成一个整体（或一个单位），因而成了一种复合名词。它们不
仅有固定的词序，且后面的谓语动词通常要用单数形式。这类复合名词有：bacon and eggs（咸肉和鸡蛋）， 
bread and butter（面包和黄油），cheese and wine（奶酷和葡萄酒），fish and chips（鱼和油炸土豆片），a knife and fork（一副刀叉），sausage(s) and mash（香肠和土豆泥）。通常被作为单数看待的有一道菜和一套东西。 
Fish and chips is a popular meal in Britain. 
如果把两个名词看成是分开的东西，动词就要用复数： 
Fish and chips make a good meal.  