
 
	Lesson 57 	Can I help you,madam? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（8） 
madam 	n. （对妇女的尊称）太太，夫人 
jeans 	n. 牛仔裤 
hesitate 	v. 犹豫，迟缓 
serve 	v. 接待（顾客） 
scornfully 	adv. 轻蔑地 
punish 	v.  惩罚 
fur 	n. 裘皮 
eager 	adj. 热切的，热情的 
 
★	madam 	n. (对妇女的尊称)太太; 夫人 
	ma’am 	n. <口>夫人, 太太, 女士, 小姐 = madam 
 
★	jeans 	n. 牛仔裤 trousers 	n.裤子, 长裤 pants 	n.裤子, 短裤  
★	hesitate 	v. 犹豫, 迟疑 hesitate to do sth. 犹 豫 做 …… make up one's mind  下决心做…… hesitation 	n. 犹豫, 踌躇 without hesitation 毫不犹豫 
Without hesitation he refused my request. 
 
★	serve 	v. 接待(顾客) 
① vt.&vi. 帮佣，当仆人，给……干活 serve sb. 为某人而服务 
Mary served (in) the family as a cook for more than ten years. 
②vt.&vi. 服务；服役；供职 
She served the firm as a secretary for two years. Have you ever served in the army? 
③ vt.&vi. 接待（顾客） 
The assistant was eager to serve her this time. Tom served in a restaurant when he was 18. 
service n. 服务, 服务性工作, 服役, 仪式；vt. 保养, 维修 adj.(军队)服现役的, 服务性的, 仆人的, 耐用的 
	At your service. 	乐于为您效劳。 
 
★	scornfully adv. 轻蔑地 look down upon/on 看不起，瞧不起…… He looks down on me. 
 
★	punish 	v. 惩罚 punishment 	n. 惩罚 
	capital punishment 	极刑 
 
★	fur 	n. 裘皮 mink 	n. 貂皮  
★	eager adj. 热切的, 热情的 be eager to do sth. 急于做某事 
 
【Text】 
A woman in jeans stood at the window of an expensive shop. Though she hesitated for a moment, she finally went in and asked to see a dress that was in the window. The assistant who served her did not like the way she was dressed. Glancing at her scornfully, he told her that the dress was sold. The woman walked out of the shop angrily and decided to punish the assistant next day. She returned to the shop the following morning dressed in a fur coat, with a handbag in one hand and a long umbrella in the other. After seeking out the rude assistant, she asked for the same dress. Not realizing who she was, the assistant was eager to serve her this time. With great difficulty, he climbed into the shop window to get the dress. As soon as she saw it, the woman said she did not like it. She enjoyed herself making the assistant bring almost everything in the window before finally buying the dress she had first asked for. 
 
参考译文 
一位穿着牛仔裤的妇女站在一家高档商店的橱窗前. 她虽然犹豫了片刻, 但终于还是走进了商店, 要求把陈列在橱窗里的一件衣服拿给她看. 接待她的售货员不喜欢她的那副打扮, 轻蔑地看了她一眼后, 便告诉她那件衣服已经卖出去了. 这位妇女怒气冲冲地走出了商店, 决定第二天教训一下那个售货员. 第二天上午, 她又来到这家商店, 穿了一件裘皮大衣, 一只手拎着一只手提包, 另一只手拿着一把长柄伞. 找到那个无礼的售货员后, 她还要看昨天的那件衣服. 那个售货员没有认出她是谁, 这一回接待她的态度非常殷勤. 费了好大劲几, 他爬进橱窗去取那件衣服. 这位妇女对那件衣服只看一眼, 就说不喜欢. 她开心地迫使那位售货员把橱窗里几乎所有的东西都拿了出来, 最后才买下了她最先要看的那一件. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、A woman in jeans stood at the window of an expensive shop. 
do window shopping (表示在橱窗外面购物) a woman in jeans 一个穿牛仔裤的妇女  
2、	Though she hesitated for a moment, she finally went in and asked to see a dress that was in the window. for a moment 不一定要与现在完成时连用, 也可以是一般现在时, 只要这个动词是延续性动词就可以 ask to do sth. 请求做某事 
 
3、	The assistant who served her did not like the way she was dressed. dress sb. 	给某人穿衣服 
Mother is dressing her baby. 
I dress myself. 自己给自己穿衣服（反身代词是不能做主语的,故 I am dressed.） dress 表示“穿着，打扮”时常用被动语态 be dressed in 
She is dressed in jeans. 
Why is your aunt dressed in black? 
the way 可以直接加定语从句, 不需要引导词 
I don’t like the way she eats. 我不喜欢她吃饭的样子 The way she eats annoyed me.  她吃饭的样子让我烦 
I cooked in the way you taught me. 
 
4 、 She returned to the shop the following morning dressed in a fur coat, with a handbag in one hand and a long umbrella in the other. 
	with sth. in hand 	手上拿着 
He went to the theatre with a book in one hand. 他手上拿着一本书去了电影院 
She went to her monther’s carring her baby with a chicken in one hand and a duck in the other. (go to one’s 
monther’s 回娘家) 
 
5、	After seeking out the rude assistant, she asked for the same dress. 
	seek out 	找出, 找到 
He sought out the thief in the crowd. Seek him out quickly. I want to speak to him.  
6、	Not realizing who she was, the assistant was eager to serve her this time. 现在分词短语代替一个分句位于句首时，其否定形式是在它前面加上 not，without 或 never 等否定词。 
这些词有时可互换，有时则不可： 
Not/Without/Never hesitating for a moment, he ran after the thief. 
Not being able to open the door, I asked my neighbour for help. 
tell sb. not to do sth. 告诉某人不要做某事像 eager，glad，pleased，sorry 等描述感觉的形容词作表语时后面往往跟不定式： 
They are all eager to come. I’m pleased to work with you. 
 
【语法精粹】 
2. _ c___ an answer from the committee, he was worried. 
a. Having not got b. Getting not c. Not having got d. Having not been got 
 
7、	With great difficulty, he climbed into the shop window to get the dress. with great difficulty/trouble，with 在这里表示行为方式。 
He lifted the box with ease/difficulty. 
Its driver had a lot of trouble trying to stop it. 
 
He had a lot of trouble climbing into the shop window to get the dress 
 
8、	She enjoyed herself making the assistant bring almost everything in the window before finally buying the dress she had first asked for. 
	enjoy oneself doing sth. 	从……中得到乐趣 
He enjoyed himself making the dog run after beggars. 
enjoy sth. enjoy doing sth. 
	make sb. do sth. 	使某人做某事 
 
【Summary writing】 
1	Did the woman in jeans hesitate for a moment or not? Did she enter an expensive shop or not? What did she ask to see? (Though ... and) 
2	What did an assistant tell her? When did the woman return? Was she dressed in a fur coat or not? (On being told by) 
3	What was the assistant eager to do this time? 
4	What did she make him bring her? What did the woman finally buy? (After making) 
 
1、	Though the woman in jeans hesitated for a moment,she entered an expensive shop and asked for/to see the dress in the shop window. 
第一步写单句, though 后面要加一个从句, 第一个句子和第二个都做主句并列, 则 though 后面还有第 
三个从句, though 后面有从句是第一个和第二个并列, 但还有个主句 
2、	On being told by an assistant that the dress was sold, 
①	The woman returned the following morning dressed in a fur coat. 
②	When the woman returned ,she was dressed in a fur coat. / the woman returned , when she was dressed in a fur coat. 
by +主动语态中的主语前后两句的强调点不同, 本句中应强调 “return” , 故后面一句更好, 这属于 tiny mistake(微小的错误), 
当然第一句最好, 另外应注意句子的平衡, 也应将 “when” 放后面 
4、After making the assistant bring…, the women finally bought the dress she had...... The woman finally bought what she had first asked for. 也对! 
 
【Letter writing】 
在信的开头常的下面两个句型： 
What a surprise it was to … 
What a surprise it was to send me flowers. 
在 to do sth. 的结构当中，可以在前面表达动作由谁做, 加一个“for sb.” 
	It is important for me to do sth. 	（“for” 一定要加在 “to” 的前面） 
What a surprise it was for you to send me flowers. 
	Forgive me for not writing earlier, but … 	我很抱歉我这么久没给你写信 
	I apologize. / I do apologize. 	我真的很抱歉!(do 其强调作用) 
You apology is accepted. 
 
 
【Key structures】 
At, In, Off and With 
在表示地点和位置时，说话人的个人角度会影响对介词的选择。at 通常用于表示居住地点和某个停留 
地点、工作地点等，而 in 表示里面或包围的含义： 
	I'll see you at the station. 	我将到车站送你. 
On the way home, we stopped at a small village called Puddleton. 
	There were a lot of people in the street. 	街上有许多人. 
Let's go for a walk in the park. 让我们到公园去散散步. 
off 常与动词连用，表示位置的变化，即“与……分离”，可译为“脱掉，脱落”（相当于 away from 或 
down from 的意思）等，其反义词为 on： 
	The lid came off easily. 	这个盖子很容易掉. 
The pencil rolled off the table. 铅笔滚到桌子下面去了. 
描写人时，in 通常用于表示穿着，后面加衣服或颜色，with 则表示身上的某个具体特征或随身带着、 
拿着什么： 
He looks handsome in that uniform. 
That man with long hair is supposed to be a poet. 那个留着长发的男人应该是个诗人. 
The police are looking for a man with a scar on his face. 
The woman with the brown handbag and long umbrella is a famous novelist. A child came along with a brown dog. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 Make and Let 
make 和let 后面都跟不带 to 的不定式，但意义上和用法上有区别： make+名词/代词+不带 to 的不定式，表示“迫使，致使”： 
She enjoyed herself making the assistant bring almost everything in the window. 
What made him change his mind? 
That beard makes you look much older than you really are. 在被动语态中含有上述意义的 make 后面必须带 to： 
He was made to work fourteen hours a day. He was made to change his mind. 
let 用于祈使句，建议包括说话者在内的人采取某一行动： 
Let’s not waste any more time. 
其否定形式除“Let’s not…”外也可以用“Don’t let’s…”： 
Don’t let’s waste any more time. 
let+名词/代词+不带 to 的不定式，表示“允许”： 
	Don't let him persuade you. 	不要让他把你说服了. 
Let me try. 让我试一拭. 
Don't let the children touch anything in this room please. 如果宾语是 us，则不能缩写成 let’s： 
Please let us have more time, will you? 
let 后面可以跟一个被动的、不带 to 的不定式： 
He let it be known that the house was his. 
 
但 let 一般不用于被动意义来表示“被允许”，这时可用 allow。 
We were not allowed to speak. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
5 After ___b___out the rude assistant she asked for the same dress. 
	a. she was seeking 	b. she had sought 	c. sought 	d. when she sought 
after, before 后面一定要加两种概念：句子或 V+ing，after 后面不能接进行时态 
 
9 She returned the following day. She returned the day ___c___. 
a. other 	b.next 	c. after 	d. else else 放在不定代词或疑问代词后面, who else，anyone else，else 不跟名词 
other, next 都作形容词用, 单个形容词修饰一个名词一定要放在被修饰词之前, the next day，the other books 
after =later 可以放在结尾, 副词表达式 three days later / three days after 
after 与 before 相对应, 可以放在句末作副词用 
I've never seen it before. 
 
【语法精粹】 
1 、 The ___b_ news made them ___ _. 
	a. excited/exciting 	b.exciting/excited 
c. exciting/to be excited d.excited /excited make sb. do sth.；make sth. +形容词 Make the room warm.  
3、____d __ , all the quarrels came to an end. 
	a. The lost money was found 	b. Was the lost money found 
	c. Because the lost money found 	d. With the lost money found 
quarrel n. 吵架, 反目, 怨言, 争吵的原因；vi. 吵架, 争论, 挑剔 a. 出现了两个主语和谓语动词 b. 也不对, 原因相同 
c. Because + 从句, 缺 was 	d. 对, with 后面不能加句子非谓语动词表达被动含义，而不作谓语 
 
4、Many of our dreams _   d ___ impossible in the past have come true. 
a. were considered 	b. to be considered 	c. considering 	d.considered 不定式除了表示目的外，还可以表示将要发生的事(在时间上) V-ing 表示动作处于现阶段，表达主动；V-ed 表示已经做过了，表达被动. b,d 的不同在于 “in the past” 时态上的差别 
 
6、After a whole day’s heavy work,the old worker returned home,____a___ a. hungry and exhausted 	b. hungry and exhausting 
	c. hungry and being exhausted 	d. huangry and exhaust 
	exhaust 	vt. 用尽, 耗尽, 抽完, 使精疲力尽；vi. 排气 
 
 n. 排气, 排气装置；adj. 用不完的, 不会枯竭的形容词短语作状语  