
 
	Lesson 38 	Everything except the weather 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（6） except 	prep. 除了 
Mediterranean 	n. 地中海 complain 	v. 抱怨 continually 	adv. 不断地 bitterly 	adv. 刺骨地 
	sunshine 	n. 阳光 
 
★	Mediterranean 	n. (the ~)地中海 
Mediterranean n.地中海（=Mediterranean sea,  位于欧,  亚,  非三大洲之间），地中海沿岸的居民；adj. 地中海的, 地中海民族的 
 
★	complain v. 抱怨 complain to sb. 向某人抱怨 complain of/about sth. 抱怨某事  
★	continually adv. 不断地 continually adv. 连续地, 频繁地(时断时续) 
The baby cry continually. 
continuously 	adj. 连续不断地 continue 	v.  继续, 连续, 延伸  
★	bitterly 	adv. 刺骨地 bitterly disappointed 	彻底的失望 （disappoint 	vt.使失望） 
I am bitterly disappointed. 
	bitterly cold 	刺骨地寒冷 
	It’s bitterly cold. 	（chilly 	adj. 寒冷的） 
 
★ sunshine 	n. 阳光也可直接用 “sun” 表示阳光 
	a drop of sunshine 	一缕阳光 （a drop of 一缕） 
 
【Text】 
My old friend, Harrison, had lived in the Mediterranean for many years before he returned to England. He had often dreamed of retiring in England and had planned to settle down in the country. He had no sooner returned than he bought a house and went to live there. Almost immediately he began to complain about the weather, for even though it was still summer, it rained continually and it was often bitterly cold. After so many years of sunshine, Harrison got a shock. He acted as if he had never lived in England before. In the end, it was more than he could bear. He had hardly had time to settle down when he sold the house and left the country. The dream he had had for so many 
 
years ended there. Harrison had thought of everything except the weather. 
 
参考译文我的老朋友哈里森在回到英国以前曾多年居住在地中海地区。过去他常幻想退休后到英国，并计划在   
乡间安顿下来。他刚一回到英国便买下了一幢房子住了进去。但紧接着他就开始抱怨那里的天气了。因为   即使那时仍为夏季，但雨总是下个不停，而且常常冷得厉害。在阳光下生活了那么多年的哈里森对此感到   惊奇。他的举动就好像他从未在英国生活过一样。最后，他再也忍受不住，还没等安顿下来就卖掉了房子，  离开了这个国家。他多年来的幻想从此破灭。哈里森把每件事情都考虑到了，唯独没想到天气。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	He had often dreamed of retiring in England and had planned to settle down in the country. dream of… 想, 梦见(梦想)，幻想，向往 
Frank used to dream of having a car of his own. 
	think of… 	想(思维的活动), 考虑 
settle down 定居，安身，安顿 
After two years of traveling, I want to settle down now.  
2、	He had no sooner returned than he bought a house and went to live there. 
no sooner…than… 	一……就……（关联词，引导时间状语从句，主句里常用过去完成时，than 后面的从句用一般过去时），相同用法的还有 as soon as，the moment，on doing had no sooner done…than +一般过去时, 固定用法 (时态结构 : 完成时态 + than + 一般过去时) 
He had no sooner arrived than he called me up. no sooner 放在句首就要倒装 
	No sooner had he arrived than he called me up. 	(倒装) 
 
3、	Almost immediately he began to complain about the weather, for even though it was still summer, it rained continually and it was often bitterly cold. 
	almost immediately 	几乎马上, 很快地 (时间上的快, 常用于写作) 
for（连词）表示因为(解释说明,  附加的)＝because 因为（一定要说的原因），for 与 because 不同，不能 
用于句首，并且在 for 后面必须重复主语： 
I don’t have a car, for I can’t afford it. 
	even though =even if 	即使，虽然（引导让步状语从句） 
Even though I came here, my mind was absent. 尽管我人来了, 但我还是心不在焉 
 
4、	After so many years of sunshine, Harrison got a shock. 
so many years 这么多年 
after it rained for days = after so many days of rain 在这么多天雨之后 After seven years of hard work, he was successful. 
After ten years of staying in abroad, he decided to return and settle down. got a shock 吓了一跳, 吃了一惊 
 
5、	He acted as if he had never lived in England before. 
as if+句子 	似乎, 好像（引导表示方式的状语从句，如果从句为过去完成时则是虚拟语气，描述与事实相反, 后面的条件是假的） 
He acted as if he was poor. (as if 后是真是假, 应根据上下文来看) 
My leg hurts as if it was broken. 
连词 as if/though 引导方式状语从句，通常跟在描述行为举止的动词之后，如 act，appear，feel，look， 
smell，sound 等后面： 
She acted as if she were mad. （虚拟语气） 
It feels as if/though it’s going to rain.  
6、	In the end, it was more than he could bear. more than 在这里表示“超过……的范围” 
This piece of news is more than I can believe. 
It was more than I could understand. 
I can't affard it. ＝ It was more than I can affard. 
这种用法与它通常表示“比……更多”的用法稍有不同： 
There were more than ten people in the room.  
7、He had hardly had time to settle down when he sold the house and left the country. hardly…when… 还没来得及……就……，用法同 no sooner…than 
	hardly had sb. done when… 	(hardly 在句首, 要倒装) 
He had hardly opened his eyes when he was knocked out.（knock out : 打晕, 击倒） 
	have time to do sth. 	有时间做某事 
I have no time to talk with you. 	我没时间和你说话 I have time enough to have coffee. 	我有足够的时间喝咖啡 
 
【Composition】 
1	He bought an old car. It was in a very bad state.(but) 
2	The engine was worn out. The gearbox was full of sawdust. (The engine…not only…but…as well) 3 He could not drive it. He could no sell it. He could not even give it away. (neither…nor…nor) 
 
1.	in a bad state 	状态不太好 though 虽然, even though＝even if 即使，这些词出现在两句之间, 就不再加 but， 
2.	The engine was not only worn out but the gearbox was full of sawdust. worn out 	破旧不堪的 engine 	n. 发动机, 机车, 火车头 gearbox 	n. 变速箱 
sawdust n. 锯屑, 木头屑子 （saw n. 锯；v. 锯） not only 出现在句首要倒装,一般不会放在句首 
3.	He could neither drive it nor sell it nor even give it away. 
He could neither drive it nor sell it even nor give it away. (这样写更好) neither do sth. nor do sth. nor do sth. 既不能也不能更不能【Letter writing】 
日期：每年下列月份写出全称：3 月，4 月，5 月，6 月和 7 月，剩余的月份写成：Jan. (1 月)；Feb. (2 
月)；Aug. (8 月)；Sept. (9 月)；Oct. (10 月)；Nov. (11 月)和 Dec. (12 月)。  
【Key structures】 	 过去完成时 
过去完成时经常与一般过去时连用，表示过去某个动作发生前完成的动作。与过去完成时连用的表示  时
间的词或词组有 when，after，as soon as，(not) until，by that time，(never) before，already，for，since， just，no sooner…than，hardly…when 等。过去完成时不能与副词 ago 连用（ago 只能与一般过去时连用）。 
He hadn’t finished it by yesterday evening. 到昨天晚上他还没做完。 
I’d never flown a plane at all until I flew this one! 在驾驶这架飞机之前我从来没有驾驶过飞机！ 
 
【Special Difficulties】 
No sooner…than and Hardly…when 
no sooner…than (一……就……)；hardly…when (几乎未来得及……就……)这两组连词意义都和 as soon 
as 相近，但比 as soon as 正式。它们通常都与过去完成时连用。当 no sooner 和 hardly 位于句首时，后面的主谓结构都要颠倒顺序，即句子变为 no sooner/hardly +助动词 +主语 +动词形式的语序。 
No sooner had he begun speaking than he was interrupted. 他刚一开始讲话就被打断了。 
Hardly had he got into the bus when it began moving. 
 
Country and Countryside 
	country 	n. 国家，祖国；乡下（做“乡下”讲时常与 the 连用） 
Which country do you come from? 
He had planned to settle down in the country. 
	countryside 	n.  农村地区（强调景色），乡下 
The countryside around Vienna is very beautiful. 维也纳周围的乡村非常漂亮. 
I grew up in the countryside. 
 
Continuously and Continually 
	continuously 	adv. 不断地，连续地（指动作中间没有间断） 
You mustn’t watch TV for such a long time continuously. This plane can fly continuoulsly for twenty hours. 
	continually 	adv. 频繁地，反复地（指动作中间有间断但又持续很久） 
It rained continually. 天频繁地下雨。 The river flows under this bridge continuously. 河水不停地从桥下流过. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
4 He acted ___a___ he had never lived in England before. 
	a. as though 	b. like 	c. as 	d. even if 
as if ＝ as though 作宾语，act as if/though 习惯用法 
as 后面可以加句子, like 后面加词, as if 加在后面只能作状语，even if 即使 
 
5 It was more than he could bear. He couldn't bear it _ c_ . 
	a. more 	b. longer 	c. any longer  	d. no more 
not any more = not any longer = not any further 不再 not more ＝ less 比……少 
	not longer 	不是更长 
 
11 He___d___ as if he had never lived in England before. 
a. made 	b. did 	c. conducted 	d. behaved 
do as I did 	按我所做的做 	
seem as if 	看起来象…… 	
act as if 	行为象……一样 	
look as if 	看起来象……一样 	
conduct＝behave 可以做动词，表示行为，但 conduct 为不及物动词, 如果作及物动词, 加 oneself He conducted himself well. 他表现的很好 
He behaved (as) well.  