
 
	Lesson 59 	In or out? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（8） 
bark 	v. 狗叫 
press 	v. 按，压 
paw 	n. 脚爪 
latch 	n. 门闩 
expert 	n. 专家 
develop 	v.  养成 
habit 	n. 习惯 
remove 	v. 拆掉，取下 
 
★	bark 	v. 狗叫 
The dog is barking. 
sb. is barking. 某人在咆哮  
★	press v. 按 , 压 ① vt.&vi. 按，挤，压 
She pressed my hand warmly. 她热情地握我的手。 
Can you press that button for me please? 
②	vt. 挤取，榨取（……的汁） 
This is the time of the year when they press their grapes. If you prefer juice, you can press some oranges. 
③	vt. 催促，敦促，竭力劝说 
My parents pressed me to enter for the competition. 
I don’t like to be pressed. 我不喜欢被人催促。 pressure n. 压, 压力, 电压, 压迫, 强制, 紧迫  
★ paw 	n. 脚爪 cat's paw 	被利用的人(由寓言而来) 
I don't want to be a cat's paw 我才不想被人利用 
 
★	latch 	n. 门闩 
latch 	n. 门闩（庭院，花园中的门闩） bar 	n. 门闩（与 latch 不同） 
 
★	expert n. 专家 expert at/in sth. 在某一方面是专家 expert at/in doing sth. expert at/in opening the door 
 
★	develop 	v. 养成 
 
①	vt. &vi. 发展，扩展 
The village has developed into a town now. 
Do you believe that you can develop your mind through watching TV? 你相信通过看电视能开发你的智力吗？ 
It’s hard to develop your business in this city. 
	developing skills 	发展技巧 
fluency in English 	流利英语 （fluency 	n.流利, 流畅, 雄辩） developing country 发展中国家 ； developed country 发达国家 
V-ed 强调已经，V-ing 强调正在，有时态的区别 boiling water 滚开水 ； boiled water 开水 
	develop the film 	冲洗胶卷 
②	vt. &vi.（逐渐）显现出，产生，获得，养成 
	She developed an interest in swimming. 	她对游泳产生了兴趣。 
 
★	habit 	n. 习惯(指个人习惯) 	 
	custom 	n. 风俗，习俗 ； customs 	n. 海 关 ； customer 	n. 顾客 
 
★	remove v. 拆掉, 取下 remove sth. from 从……挪走 
 
【Text】 
Our dog, Rex, used to sit outside our front gate and dark. Every time he wanted to come into the garden he would bark until someone opened the gate. As the neighbours complained of the noise, my husband spent weeks training him to press his paw on the latch to let himself in. Rex soon became an expert at opening the gate. However, when I was going out shopping last week, I noticed him in the garden near the gate. This time he was barking so that someone would let him out! Since then, he has developed another bad habit. As soon as he opens the gate from the outside, he comes into the garden and waits until the gate shuts. Then he sits and barks until someone lets him out. After this he immediately lets himself in and begins barking again. Yesterday my husband removed the gate and Rex got so annoyed we have not seen him since. 
 
参考译文我家的狗雷克斯, 过去常坐在大门外面叫. 每当它想到花园里来时, 便汪汪叫个不停, 直到有人把门打开. 由于邻居们对狗叫很有意见, 所以我丈夫花了几个星期的时间训练它用脚爪按住门闩把自己放进来. 雷克斯很快成了开门的专家. 然而上星期我正要出去买东西时, 发现它正呆在花园里边靠门的地方. 这次它叫着让人把它放出去!从那以后, 它养成了另外一种坏习惯. 它从外面把门一打开, 就走进花园, 等着门自动关
上. 这之后他就坐下汪汪叫起来, 直到有人来把它放出去. 出去之后, 它又马上把自己放进来, 接着再开始叫. 
昨天, 我丈夫把大门卸了下来, 雷克斯很生气, 此后我们便再也没有见到它. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Our dog, Rex, used to sit outside our front gate and dark. 
front gate 前门 would＝used to 过去常常 2、Every time he wanted to come into the garden he would bark until someone opened the gate. The dog used to bark the front gate to let(make) somebody open the door. 
	every time＝when 	每当，每次，无论何时（后面可以是点时间，也可以是段时间） 
Every time I turn to lesson 59, I will remember my teacher. the monment＝as soon as 	一……就……(强调的是瞬间) 
 
3、As the neighbours complained of the noise, my husband spent weeks training him to press his paw on the latch to let himself in. 
complaim of… 抱怨…… 
	sb. spend time (in) doing sth./on sth. 	花费某段时间去做某事（人作主语） 
Why don’t you spend more time on studies? I spent two weeks (in) reading this book. 
It takes sb. some times to do sth. 某事花了某人多少时间（事情做主语） train sb. to do sth. 训练某人做某事 let sb. do sth. 让某人做某事 let sb. in 让某人进来 ； let sb. out 让某人出去 let sb. down 让某人失望 
press his paw on the latch = press the latch press the button / press the figure on the button  
4、	Rex soon became an expert at opening the gate. 
become an expert at doing sth. 成了……能手/专家/权威 
John is an expert at driving a car. 
She is an expert in flowers. Sam is an expert on that problem.  
5、	However, when I was going out shopping last week, I noticed him in the garden near the gate. 
going out shopping 加了 out 强调外出 
 
6、	Yesterday my husband removed the gate and Rex got so annoyed we have not seen him since. 
so…that… 	如此……以至于，结果状语从句，可以省略一个词，so 或 that 都可以 so that 以便于……，为了（目的状语从句） 
This time he was barking so that someone would let him out! since(在句尾) = since then : 从那时起到现在为止 
 
【Special difficulties】 
To，In order to，So as to，So that，In order that 表达目的几种方式带 to 的不定式及 in order to 和 so as to 可以用来表示目的： 
I went to live in France to/in order to/so as to learn French. not to 可以用来表示取舍： 
I went to France not to study French, but to study chemics. 
so as not to/in order not to 可以用于表示“以防”： 
I shut the door quietly, so as not to/in order not to wake the bady. 
 
在 bring，buy，need，take，use，want 等动词后经常用宾语加 to 不定式，用来表示宾语的目的。
I need a spoon to eat this ice cream with. 
连词 so that，in order that 可以引导目的状语从句。目的状语从句必须具备一个特征, 在动词前面一定要出现情态动词，当主句用一般现在时、现在完成时或一般将来时的时候，so that 和 in order that 后面可以跟 may，can 或 will；当主句用一般过去时、过去进行时或过去完成时的时候，so that 和 in order that 后面
可以跟 should，could，might 或 would。 
I’ve arrived early so that/ in order that I may/ can /will get the tickets. I arrivd early so that/in order that I might not miss anything. 
当前后主语不一致时，不定式前面加 for +名词/代词比 that 结构更简洁，不定式的逻辑主语 for sb. to do sth.  
He was barking for someone to let him out. =He was barking so that someone would let him out. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 6 He was barking ___a___let him in. 
	a. for someone to 	b. in case someone 
c. so someone to d. so that someone so that 引导目的状语从句 in case+从句 以防万一, 如果 (状语从句,不会出现将来式) 
Bring your umbrella in case it rains. 
so 表示结果，引导句子，so 一旦出现会加句子，而 to 是不定式是非谓语 
to do sth. 不定式做目的状语 for sb. to do sth. = so that sb. do sth.  
7 As soon as he___b_ the gate from the outside he comes into the garden. 
a. will open b.opens c. is opening d. has been opening as soon as 引导状语从句，状语从句中使用一般现在时取代一般将来时 be opening 强调动作正在发生 has been doing 现在完成进行时强调从过去延续到现在,并且不将延续 