
 
	Lesson 55 	Nota gold mine 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（19） 
gold 	n. 金子 	
mine 	n. 矿 	
treasure 	n. 财宝 	
revealer 	n. 探测器 	
invent 	v.  发明 	
detect 	v.  探测 	
bury 	v.  埋藏 	
cave 	n. ft洞 	
seashore 	n. 海岸 	
pirate 	n. 海盗 	
arm 	v.  武装 	
soil 	n. 泥土 	
entrance 	n. 入口 	
finally 	adv. 最后 	
worthless 	adj. 毫无价值的 	
thoroughly 	adv. 彻底地 	
trunk 	n. 行李箱 	
confident 	adj. 有信心的 	
value 
 	n. 价值 	
★ gold n. 金子 sth. be made of gold ……由金子做成的 gold watch；gold ring；golden sun 金色的太阳 golden] adj. 金色的, 宝贵的 
	Silence is golden. 	沉默是金 	
	golden opportunity  	宝贵的机会 (opportunity 	n. 机会, 时机) 
	golden sentence 	黄金句型 
I am honoured to have the opportuneity to do sth. 
I am glad to have the golden opportunity to do sth. 
I am glad to have the golden opportunity to stay with you. 
goldfish 	n. 金鱼 platinum 	n. 白金, 铂  
	★ treasure 	n. 财宝 (为总称, 没有复数) 
‘treasure island’ 《金银岛》 jewel n. 宝石 珠宝, (可数) jewelry n. 珠宝, 珠宝类 珠宝(总称, 不可数) 
I have some jewels. = I have some jewelry. 
	diamond 	n. 钻石 
	jade 	n. 碧玉 (不可数名词) 
jade palace 翠宫饭店  
★	revealer 	n. 探测器 reveal 	v. 揭示  
★	invent 	v. 发明 invention 	n. 发明  
★	detect 	v. 探测 detective 	n. 侦探  
★	pirate 	n. 海盗 
	pirate 	n. 海盗, 盗印者, 盗版者, 侵犯专利权者 
vt. 盗印, 盗版, 掠夺, 翻印 vi.做海盗 
 
★	arm 	v. 武装 
①	n. 手臂；武器 
hold one's arm 
Farewell! Arms 永别了, 武器 farewell 	int. 再会,别了!(常含有永别或不容易再见面的意思) 
②	v. 武装 
Soldiers should be armed well. 士兵应该要很好的武装。 be armed with … 	用……来武装 
The youth should be armed with knowledge. 年轻人应该用知识武装自己 
The teacher should be patient. =The teacher should be armed with patience. 
be covered with 	被……覆盖 army 	n. 军队  
★	soil n. 泥土 soil n. 土壤 (能生长植物的地方) earth  n. 泥土 (泥巴) 
 
★	entrance 	n. 入口 entrance of/to… ……的入口 
entrance of the park ； entrance to the park 
exit n. 出口, 太平门, 退场, 去世；vi. 退出, 脱离, 去世  
★	thoroughly 	adv. 彻底地 completely/thoroughly/totally 
 
★	confident 	n. 有信心的 
	be confident of doing sth. 	有信心做……  
 be confident that +从句 	有信心做…… confidence 	n. 信心 
 
【Text】 
 Dreams  of finding  lost  treasure almost ca me true recently. A  new machine called 'T he Revealer' has  been  invented  and  it  has  been u sed t o d etect gold w hich h as b een b uried in  th e gr ound. Th e m achine was  us ed in  a ca v e near  the  seashore  where - - i t i s s aid - - p irates u sed to  h ide go ld. T he p irates w ould of ten bu ry go ld in  the  ca ve an d  then fail  to  collect it.  Armed  with  the new machine, a  search p arty w ent in to th e cave ho ping to  fin d bu ried  treasure.  The leader  of the  party w as examining t he soil n ear the e ntrance to th e ca ve when th e machine showed  that there was gold  under the g round. V ery e xcited, th e p arty du g a  hole two fe et deep. Th ey fin ally foun d a s mall  gold  coin  which  was almost  worthless. T he party t hen s earched the whole cave thoroughly bu t di d no t fin d  anything  except  an empty  tin  trunk. I n s pite of this, m any p eople are confident th at 'The R evealer' m ay rev eal  something  of value fairly s oon. 
 
参考译文 
最近, 找到失踪宝藏的梦想差一点儿变成现实. 一种叫 “探宝器” 的新机器已经发明出来, 并被人们用来探测地下埋藏的金子. 在靠近海边的一个据说过去海盗常在里面藏金子的岩洞里, 这种机器被派上了用场. 海盗们过去常把金子埋藏在那个洞里, 可后来却没能取走. 一支用这种新机器装备起来的探宝队进入了这个岩洞, 希望找到埋藏着的金子. 当这个队的队长正在检查洞口附近的土壤时, 那台机器显示出它的下面埋有金子. 队员们异常激动, 就地挖了一个两英尺深的坑, 但最后找到的是一枚几乎一钱不值的小金币. 队员们接着又把整个洞彻底搜寻了一遍, 但除了一只空铁皮箱外什么也没找到. 尽管如此, 很多人仍然相信 “探宝器” 很快就会探出值钱的东西来. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Dreams of finding lost treasure almost came true recently. 
	★ dream 	n. 梦；v. 做梦 
①	n. 梦想 
dreams come true 梦想成真 dreams ended 梦想破灭了, 梦断了 dream of … ……的梦 
Dream of flying in the sky comes true. 
②	v. 做梦 
dream of doing sth. 
I dream of flying in the sky.(dream v) 
	come true 	变成现实，（预言、期望等）成为事实，（愿意）实现 
His dream to travel around the world at last came true. 
 
2、A new machine called 'The Revealer' has been invented and it has been used to detect gold which has been buried in the ground. 
一句话中只有一个动词, 如果再出现动词, 可以用 and 并列连接, 也可以变成复合句, 用 when, because 
连接, 还可以使这个动词表示动词意思, 但不做谓语, 即非谓语动词过去分词做定语, 表示 “被”，如 ploughed field 
 
n. +called 被称之为……的……（如果用短语修饰其他词, 则把短语放在被修饰词的后边） the plane called a “Pilatus Porter” be used to do sth.  被用来…… used to do 过去常常 
同位语从句中的引导词只有一个 that，不会用 which in the ground (更习惯于用 “under the ground” ) 
 
3、	The machine was used in a cave near the seashore where -- it is said -- pirates used to hide gold. it is said 是插入语，当“据说”讲。 
where = in which 翻译时译为 “在那儿”，修饰 cave；一个地点状语从句
This is the river where I swim.  
4、	The pirates would often bury gold in the cave and then fail to collect it. 
would 表示过去的习惯性动作, 但此处表示 “used to” 过去常做 fail to do sth. 未能、不能、忘记做某事项 （fail 后面接动词不定式表示否定） 
He failed to see the reason why they sent him away. 
collect 的含义之一为“（去）取，接” 
Don’t fail to collect me before you go to the party. I’ll collect my post on my way home.  
5、	Armed with the new machine, a search party went into the cave hoping to find buried treasure. 
如果几个句子的主语是同一事物, 则可以把几个句子合并为一个句子。保留一个句子做主句, 其他的变成非谓语动词。非谓语动词采用何种形式, 则根据其与主语的关系, 如果是主动关系, 用-ing, 被动关系, 则用动词的-ed 形式主句与其他句子的位置安排要保持句子的平衡, 还要注意动作的连贯 
The boy went home. The boy was crying. The boy was beaten. 
=Beaten by sb, the boy went home, crying. 
arm(ed) with 可以表示“带着、装着、穿着”等 
Don’t worry. I’m armed with an umbrella. You’d better arm yourself with a warm coat.  
6、	Very excited, the party dug a hole two feel deep. 
	Very exciting, … 	形容词短语做状语 
Tired of sleeping on the floor, … 
Tired, I went home./ I went home tired.句子顺序不同, 表达的意思也不同 
two feet deep“数词+量词+形容词”结构可以做定语； 也可以做表语 
I am five years old. 
The street is five meters wide. 
long/wide/high/deep，人有多高用 “tall” 
 
7、In spite of this, many people are confident that 'The Revealer' may reveal something of value 
 
fairly soon. 
in spite of / though / even if 尽管 something of value 
of 表示其所修饰的名词具有某种性质、状况，of 加名词往往让人联想这名词对应的形容词
The news is of great importance to us. 
of value＝valuable 	有价值的 of small value 价值很小(= almost worthless) 形容词要放在不定代词的后边 
something important =something of importance someone patient =someone of patience 
 
【Summary writing】 
1	Is‘The Revealer’a new machine or an old machine?Is it used for detecting buried gold or not?(which) 
2	Did a search party use this machine or not? Where did they try to find gold recently?(Using this machine...) 
3	Did they examine the cave thoroughly or not? Did they only find a small gold coin?Was it valuable or was it practically worthless?(Although...which) 
4	Do many people believe that the machine may reveal something of value soon or not?(However) 
 
1、	machine 作为先行词, it 指代 machine, 会被which 所取代 
2、	Using this machine, a seach party tried to find the gold in came near the seashore. 
3、	Although 会引导让步状语从句, which 会引导一个定于从句 
Although they examined the came thoroughly ,they only found a small gold coin which was practically worthless. 
4、	however 放在句首句中都可以, 要用逗号隔开 
 
【Key structures】 	 
表示过去习惯性动作 
当我们提到过去某一特定时间时, 我们有时可用 would 来代替 used to，有时则不可以，而且 would 需 
要指出具体时间，used to 则不需要。 
当 used to 暗示与现在的对照时，不可用 would 替换： 
I used to drink heavily, but I have given up drinking now. I never used to eat a large breakfast, but I do now. 
当 used to 描写过去的状态时，也不可与 would 互换，would 只表示过去特有的习惯或行为： 
	This sort of novel used to be very popular. 	这种小说过去很流行. 
I used to be a waiter, but now I’m a taxi-driver. 
当 used to 不强调与现在的对比时，可与 would 互换。但一个故事开头时不用 would，必须首先用一般 
过去时或 used to 描述背景，然后用 would 表示习惯性动作： 
When I was a boy we always spent/used to spend our holidays on a farm. We would get up at 5 and we would help milk the cows. 
 
【Special difficulties】 
 use, be used to, used to 
	use 	vt. 用，使用，运用，应用 
May I use your dictionary/car? 
I don’t know how to use the word. 
	be used to 	习惯于（后面跟名词或动名词，be 也可用 get 等代替） 
I soon got used to getting up early when I started working as a baker. 
I’m used to shopping alone. 
	used to 	过去习惯……（表示过去有而现在通常已不存在的习惯，只用于一般过去时，后面只能 
跟动词不定式） 
I used to get up early when I worked as a baker, but I don’t have to get up early now. 
You didn’t use to smoke. 
 
Gold and Golden glod 
①	n. 金，黄金，金币，金块 
He loves gold more than anything else. 
②	adj. 金的 
When Frank retired, they gave him a gold watch. 
	All that glitters is not gold. 	（all…is not… 不是所有的，部分否定 not all） 
	golden 	adj.  金色的，（机会等）非常好的，兴盛的 
As the sun set, the sky became golden. 
As he grew older, he always thought about the golden days of his life. You’ve missed a golden chance to make a lot of money. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
3‘The Revealer’has been used for ___b_ gold. 
a.to detect 	b.detecting 	c.detect 	d. detected 介词后面要加 v+ing 形式 
“被用来做某事”有两种表达方式：如果跟名词相连说be used for sth.；如果跟动词相连说be used to do  ， be used for +Ving  
4 Pirates used to hide gold there. _ d___. 
	a. and they always do 	b.and they still do 
	c. and they still do sometimes 	d.that's what they would do 
	That’s what 	那就是……事 
题目 “Pirates used to hide gold there, .....” 应该用句号, 而不应该用逗号 
两个句子中间必须加 “and 或but” 等连词, 或是用句号隔开。一句话当中只有一个主语, 一个动词, 叫简单句，出现两个以上的动词要用连词连接。两个句子可以是主从句，可以把一个动词用为动词,    而把其他的动词改装为非谓语动词 
 
7 How ___c_ was the hole? 
a.deeply  	b.depth 	 c.deep 	d.down deeply 	adv.；depth 	n.；deep 	adj.&adv.；down 	adv. 用什么词看它的陈述句用什么词 
 
8‘The Revealer’is a very good _ a___. 
a.machine 	 	b.engine 	c.machinery 	d.mechanic machine 	n. 机器（可数名词） engine 	n. 发动机 
machinery 	n. [总称] 机器, 机械 机器(总称, 一般后边不会加 s, 前面也不加 a) mechanic 	n. 技工, 机修工, 机械士 revealer 	n. 探测器  
10 The coin was almost worthless. So it was of small ___d___. 
a.worthy 	b.honour 	c.price 	d.value of value = valuable 
of small value＝worthless 不值钱的 
of great value 非常值钱的 （介词短语修饰名词时放在其后面）  