
 
	Lesson 29 	Taxi! 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（10） 
taxi 	n. 出租汽车 
Pilatus Porter 	皮勒特斯 波特（飞机名） 
land 	v. 着陆 (不及物) 
plough 	v. 耕地 
lonely 	adj. 偏僻的, 人迹罕见的(地方) 
Welsh 	adj. 威尔士的 
roof 	n. 楼顶 (从外面看) 
block 	n. 块, 一座大楼 
flat 	n. 公寓房 
desert 	v. 废弃 
 
★	taxi 	n. 出租汽车 taxi driver 	出租车司机 
take a taxi，take a bus，take a lift 
 
★	land 	vi. 着陆 
Whose plane landed in the field? 
 
★	plough 	v. 耕地 
plough n. 梨；v. 耕, 犁, 犁耕, 费力穿过, 艰苦前进, 在考试中淘汰 farm n. 农田，家场  
★	lonely  adj. 偏僻的, 人迹罕见的(地方) lonely adj. 孤独的, 孤僻的(人) 
She felt lonely. 她感到孤独（主观） alone adj. 单独的, 独一无二的, 孤独的, 独自的；adv. 独自地 
	She is alone. 	她独自一个人（事实, 客观） 
 
★	roof n. 楼顶（从外面看） raise the roof  v. 喧闹, 大声抱怨
	ceiling 	n. 天花板（从里面看） 
	hit the ceiling 	勃然大怒, 暴跳如雷, 怒发冲冠（美口语） 
 
★	block 	n. 块, 一座大楼 
 
★	flat n. 公寓房 a block of flats 公寓楼 (英国英语) a block of apartments 公寓楼(美语，apartment n. 公寓) office block 办公楼 写字楼 
 
★	desert 	v. 废弃 
①	v. 废弃 
desert the house = let the room empty 
②	n. 沙漠, 不毛之地 
 
【Text】 
Captain Ben Fawcett has bought an unusual taxi and has begun a new service.The 'taxi' is a small Swiss aeroplane called a 'Pilatus Porter'. This wonderful plane can carry seven passengers. The most surprising thing about it, however, is that it can land anywhere: on snow, water, or even on a ploughed field. Captain Fawcett's first passenger was a doctor who flew from Birmingham to a lonely village in the Welsh mountains. Since then, Captain Fawcett has flown passengers to many unusual places. Once he landed on the roof of a block of flats and on another occasion, he landed in a deserted car park. Captain Fawcett has just refused a strange request from a businessman. The man wanted to fly to Rockall, a lonely island in the Atlantic Ocean, but Captain Fawcett did not take him because the trip was too dangerous. 
 
参考译文 
本.弗西特机长买了一辆不同寻常的出租汽车, 并开始了一项新的业务. 这辆 “出租汽车” 是一架小型瑞士飞机, 叫 “皮勒特斯.波特” 号. 这架奇妙的飞机可以载7 名乘客. 然而, 最令人惊奇的是它能够在任何地方降落 : 雪地上, 水面上, 甚至刚耕过的田里. 弗西特机长的第一名乘客是位医生, 他从伯明翰飞往威尔士 ft区一个偏僻的村庄. 从那时开始, 弗西特机长已经载送乘客到过许多不寻常的地方. 一次, 他把飞机降落在了一栋公寓楼的屋顶上; 还有一次, 降落在了一个废弃的停车场上. 弗西特机长刚刚拒绝了一位商人的奇怪要求. 这个人想要飞往大西洋上的一个孤岛 -- 罗卡尔岛, 弗西特机长之所以不送他去, 是因为那段飞行太危险了. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、The 'taxi' is a small Swiss aeroplane called a 'Pilatus Porter'. 
called a ‘Pilatus Porter’是过去分词短语,作 aeroplane 的定语。一般过去分词短语作定语时要放在所修饰的名词/代词之后，而一个单独的分词作定语时则往往放在所修饰的名词/代词前面。 
He landed in a deserted car park. 
a race across the Atlantic 
call sb. sth. 叫某人…… be called 	被称为…… 
The instrument was called a clavichord. 
过去分词做定语时是作为被动状态来翻译的 
I have an instrument called a clavichord. 
a ploughed field 	被耕过的田； a deserted car park 被废弃的车场 written English 	书面语 ；spoken English 口 语 colloquial language 	口语 
 
2 、 The most surprising thing about it, however, is that it can land anywhere: on snow, water, or even on a ploughed field. 
that 从句在此处是表语从句。宾语从句中的 that 可省略；定语从句中的关系词在从句中做宾语时可  以省略。 
	The most surprising thing is that… 	（surprising 可以由其它词替换） 
The most exciting thing is that we can win the football match. 
	The  happiest thing is that I  can visit/see/(stay with)  mother  during  the Spring Festival. 	(the Spring 
Festival 	春节) 
To one’s surprise, … 
 
3、Since then, Captain Fawcett has flown passengers to many unusual places. since then 	从那时起（强调起点） so far =up to now 	强调终点 
 
★ fly 
①	vi. 飞，飞行 
The aeroplane is flying over the river. 
②	vt. 空运（乘客） 
	fly sb./sth. To… 	开飞机送某人/物去…… 
He has flown his car to France. 
	drive sb. to… 	开车送某人去…… 
My friend drove me to Tianjin. 
 
4、	Once he landed on the roof of a block of flats and on another occasion, he landed in a deserted car park. once…and on another occasion 一次……还有一次…… 
Once I met him on the street and on another occasion I met him in the library. 
 
5、	Captain Fawcett has just refused a strange request from a businessman. request from sb. 来自某人的请求 request for sth. 要求得到  
6、	The man wanted to fly to Rockall, a lonely island in the Atlantic Ocean, but Captain Fawcett did not take him because the trip was too dangerous. take sb. to … 送某人…… 
too 在副词或形容词前表示否定含义，强调程度大到了人们不愿去做 too expensive 	太贵了（买不起） 
very 强调程度深 
You are very kind. 
	very expensive 	很贵，但买得起 
	dangerous 	adj. 危险的 
 
【Composition】 
The plane (not only) (neither) (flew) (threw) close to the river, (but) (or) also flew under a bridge. (Then) (However) it (climbed) (ran) into the air. The people on the bridge (waved) (shook) to the pilot (and) (yet) he did not (notice) (look after) them. 
 
not only，flew，but，Then，climbed(ran 也对, 但没有climb 表达更确切)，waved，yet，notice 
 
【Key structures】 	 一般过去时和现在完成时 
一般过去时往往强调动作本身，而现在完成时则表示始于过去并持续到现在的动作或表示过去不确定  的
时间发生过的并与现在有某种联系的动作。 
I hope you washed them before you ate them. Up till now, I have never been abroad before. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 Refuse and Deny 
	refuse to do sth. 	拒绝做某事 
I offered to pay him for his help but he refused (payment). 
	deny doing sth. / deny that +从句 	否认（指控、做过某事等） 
The secretary denies that she has stolen the letter. 
当 refuse 作为及物/不及物动词表示“拒绝接受”时，不可与 deny 混用；当 refuse 作为及物动词表示“拒 
绝给予、拒绝要求”时，它与 deny 可以互相替换。 
All those not holding tickets will be refused /denied entry. 无票者不得入内。 
 
Bring，Take 与 Fetch 
	bring 	v.  从某处将某物“带来”，离说话人越来越近 
He brought the book with him when he came to see me. 
	take 	v. 拿走，离说话人越来越远 
He took the book with him when he left. 
	fetch 	v.  去某地将某物“取来”，是个双程动作，去了再来(双向动作) 
Please fetch me a glass of water. 
 
Very and Too 
	very 	adv. 很，非常（very 描述状况，不涉及后果） 
I arrived very late but I caught the train. 
	too 	adv.  太，过于（too 表示“太……”，以至于引起某种后果） 
I arrived too late and I missed the train. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
3. The‘taxi’is a small Swiss aeroplane _ c_ called a‘Pilatus Porter’. 
a. who is 	b. whom is 	c. which is 	d. whose is 动词的-ing 形式有主动含义, ed 形式有被动含义，它们作定语时等同于定语从句 a passing plane = a plane which is passing  
4 This is the most surprising thing about it. It is ___b_ than anything. a. most surprising b. more surprising 
	c. more surprised 	d. most surprised 
本句应表达为：It is more surprising than anything else.（else 不能省略, 句子才严密） 
 
5 He flew a doctor to a Welsh village. ___d___ he has flown to many unusual places. a. From then  b. By then c. By that time  d. Since that time from then 从……起 (没有终点)； from…to… 从……到…… 
since then = from then on 从……起(到现在为止) by then 到……止； by that time 到……止  
9 The ploughed field is ready for ___b___ . 
a. sewing b. sowing c. seeding d. growing be ready for/to… 为……作准备 
“seed”种植，只与播种子相联系, 一般作名词, 强调把种子种下去；而“sow”种植，只说明把...种下去, 并不一定是 “种子” 
11 Captain Fawcett has flown passengers to many unusual ___c___ . a. parts 	b. pieces 	c. spots 	d. sections spot=place (点, 地点) part 	n. 部分 
a piece of = a sheet of 一张 ；a piece of = a bit of 一块  