
 
	Lesson 72 	A car called bluebird 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（7） 
racing 	n. 竞赛 
per 	prep. 每 
Utah 	n. 犹他（美国州名） 
horsepower 	n. 马力 
burst 	v.  爆裂 
average 	adj. 平均的 
footstep 	n. 足迹 
 
	★ burst 	v. 爆裂 
① vi. 爆炸，爆裂 
A tyre burst during the second run. The balloon burst. 
② vt.& vi. 突然打开 
We burst the door open. While I was reading, the door burst open and John came in. 
 
【Text】 
The great racing driver, Sir Malcolm Campbell, was the first man to drive at over 300 miles per hour. He set up a new world record in September 1935 at Bonneville Salt Flats, Utah. Bluebird, the car he was driving, had been specially built for him. It was over 30 feet in length and had a 2,500-horsepower engine. Although Campbell reached a speed of over 304 miles per hour, he had great difficulty in controlling the car because a tyre burst during the first run. After his attempt, Campbell was disappointed to learn that his average speed had been 299 miles per hour. However, a few days later, he was told that a mistake had been made. His average speed had been 301 miles per hour. Since that time, racing drivers have reached speeds over 600 miles an hour. Following in his father's footsteps many years later, Sir Malcolm's son, Donald, also set up a world record. Like his father, he was driving a car called Bluebird. 
 
参考译文杰出的赛车选手马尔科姆.坎贝尔爵士是第一个以每小时超过 300 英里的速度驾车的人。他于 1935 年 9 
月在犹他州的邦纳维尔盐滩创造了一项新的世界纪录。他驾驶的“蓝鸟”牌汽车是专门为他制造的。它的  车身长 30 英尺，有一个 2,500 马力的发动机。尽管坎贝尔达到了每小时超过 304 英里的速度，但他很难把汽车控制住，因为在开始的行程中爆了一只轮胎。比赛结束后，坎贝尔非常失望地得知他的平均时速是 299 英里。然而，几天之后，有人告诉他说弄错了。他的平均时速实际是 301 英里。从那时以来，赛车选手已达到每小时 600 英里的速度。很多年之后，马尔科姆爵士的儿子唐纳德踏着父亲的足迹，也创造了一项世界纪录。
同他父亲一样，他也驾驶着一辆名叫“蓝鸟”的汽车。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、The great racing driver, Sir Malcolm Campbell, was the first man to drive at over 300 miles 
 
per hour. 
在 the second，the next/the last 以及表示最高级的如 the best，the most intelligent 等后可以用 to 引导的不定式短语做定语，这些词语后面可以接名词或 one(s)，也可以不接： 
She’s always the first to arrive and the last to leave. You’re the best person to advise me about buying a house. 你是我买房子的最好顾问。 
the only 后必须接一个名词或 one(s)： 
You’re the only person/one to complain. 
per 表示“每一，每”，通常用于商业及技术用语，日常用语大多用 a/an： 
You can stay at the hotel at $10 per person per night. You must have been driving at seventy miles an/per hour.  
2、It was over 30 feet in length and had a 2,500-horsepower engine. 
	30 feet in length 	30 英尺长 
 
3、	Although Campbell reached a speed of over 304 miles per hour, he had great difficulty in controlling the car because a tyre burst during the first run. 
have difficulty (in) doing sth. 做……有困难 
He has grown a beard and I had difficulty (in) recognizing him. 
	the first run 	开始的行程 
the next run is forty miles. 下一段赛程为 40 英里。 
 
4、	Following in his father's footsteps many years later, Sir Malcolm's son, Donald, also set up a world record. follow in one’s footsteps 步某人的后尘，仿效某人，继承某人的事业 
He intends to follow in his father’s footsteps and to become a dentist. 