
 
	Lesson 76 	April Fools' Day 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（15） 
fool 	n. 傻瓜 
bulletin 	n. 新闻简报 
announcer 	n. （电视、电台）播音员 
macaroni 	n. 通心面，空心面条 
leading 	adj. 主要的 
grower 	n. 种植者 
splendid 	adj. 极好的 
stalk 	n. 梗 
gather 	v. 收庄稼 
thresh 	v. 打（庄稼） 
process 	v. 加工 
Signor 	n. （意大利语）先生 
present 	adj. 目前的 
champion 	n. 冠军 
studio 	n. 播音室 
 
【Text】 
'To end our special news bulletin,' said the voice of the television announcer, 'we're going over to the macaroni fields of Calabria. Macaroni has been grown in this area for over six hundred years. Two of the leading growers, Giuseppe Moldova and Riccardo Brabante, tell me that they have been expecting a splendid crop this year and harvesting has begun earlier than usual. Here you can see two workers who, between them, have just finished cutting three cartloads of golden brown macaroni stalks. The whole village has been working day and night gathering and threshing this year's crop before the September rains. On the right, you can see Mrs. Brabante herself. She has been helping her husband for thirty years now. Mrs. Brabante is talking to the manager of the local factory where the crop is processed. This last scene shows you what will happen at the end of the harvest: the famous Calabrian macaroni-eating competition! Signor Fratelli, the present champion, has won it every year since 1991. And that ends our special bulletin for today, Thursday, April lst. We're now going back to the studio.' 
 
参考译文 
“作为我们专题新闻节目的结尾，”电视广播员说，“我们现在到克拉布利亚的通心粉田里。通心粉在这个地区已经种植了 600 多年了。两个主要种植者，朱塞皮.莫尔道瓦和里卡多.布拉班特告诉我，他们一直期待着今年获得一个大丰收，收割工作比往年开始要早些。这里您可以看到两个工人，他们协力割下了   3 车金黄色的通心粉秸。全村的人都日夜奋战，要赶在 9 月的雨季之前把今年的庄稼收获上来，打完场。在屏幕的右侧，您可以看到布拉班特太太本人，她已经帮了她的丈夫 30 年了。布拉班特太太现在正和负责通心粉加工的当地加工厂的经理交谈。这最后一个镜头向您展示了收获之后将发生的事情：著名的克拉  布利亚人吃通心粉大赛！目前的冠军弗拉特里先生，自 1991 年以来，年年获胜。今天 -- 4 月 1 日，星期四-
-的专题新闻节目到此结束。现在我们回到电视演播室。” 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、we're going over to the macaroni fields of Calabria. 
	go over 	往……走过去 
I went over to the blind man to help him across the road. 
 
2	、 Here you can see two workers who, between them, have just finished cutting three cartloads of golden brown macaroni stalks. 
between 作介词时含义之一是“作为……共同努力的结果，协力”： 
Between them they killed the snake. 
	Between us we pulled down the tree. 	我们协力把树拉倒了。 
 
3	、 The whole village has been working day and night gathering and threshing this year's crop before the September rains. 
rain 	n. 雨水；雨季，季节性的雨（常用复数） the September rains 	9 月雨季 
We haven’t had much rain this year. 
	Sometimes spring rains are really annoying. 	有时绵绵春雨真让人心烦意乱。 
 
【Special Difficulties】 Usual and Usually 
	usual 	adj. 通常的，平常的，惯常的 
It is usual with him to get up late. 
I parked the car at the usual place. 
	usually 	adv. 平常，通常 
When do you usually have supper? 
 
Between and Among 
	between 	prep. 在（两者）之间 
I picked up the receiver between two sticky finger. 
当表示两两之间的相互关系时，between 可用于 3 个（或 3 个以上）的名词前： 
The village lies between a river, a mountain and a road. 
	among 	prep. 在……中间，被……环绕（指三者以上） 
The church lies among mountains. 
Among those boys, Dan is the tallest. 
 
Manager，Director and Headmaster manager 	n. 经理 
I entered the hotel manager’s office and sat down. director 	n. 主任，董事 
Mr. Jones is the director of several companies. headmaster 	n.（中学）校长 
I haven’t met the headmaster of this school yet. 