
 
	Lesson 65 	Jumbo versus the police 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（9） 
versus 	prep. 对 (对抗的概念) 
Christmas 	n. 圣诞节 
circus 	n. 马戏团 
present 	n. 礼物 
accompany 	v. 陪伴, 随行 
approach 	v. 走近 
ought 	modal verb. 应该 
weigh 	v. 重 
fortunate 	adj. 幸运的 
 
★	versus prep. 对 (对抗的概念) vs. ……对……（vs.是 versus 的缩写，读音不变） 
Have you watched the game last night? It was France versus Italy. 
 
★	Christmas 	n. 圣诞节 
	Christmas Eve 	圣诞前夜 
	Father Christmas 	圣诞老人 
	Santa Claus 	圣诞老人(美国常用)（Santa [美]=Santa Claus） 
 
★	present n. 礼物 present = gift 礼物  
★	accompany 	v. 陪伴, 随行 
I'll accompany you to your hotel. 
	I'll accompany you home. 	我陪你回家。 
 
★	approach 	v. 走近 
①	v. 走近（ = come nearer and nearer ） The old man approaches 80 years old. approach sb. 离某人越来越近 
He is approaching me. 
②	n. 途径, 方法 
We have found an approach to success. 
 
★	ought modal verb 应该 ought to do sth. 应该(义务上) 
You ought to knock at the door. 
	should do sth. 	 应该(我认为) 
You should knock at the door. 
★	weigh 	v. 重 
sb./sth. weigh +体重 ……的体重/重量是…… weight 	n. 重量 
	lose weight 	减肥 
 
★	fortunate adj. 幸运的 fortunate = lucky 有运气的，幸运的 
 
【Text】 
Last Christmas, the circus owner, Jimmy Gates, decided to take some presents to a children's hospital. Dressed up as Father Christmas and accompanied by a 'guard of honour' of six pretty girls, he set off down the main street of the city riding a baby elephant called Jumbo. He should have known that the police would never allow this sort of thing. A policeman approached Jimmy and told him he ought to have gone along a side street as Jumbo was holding up the traffic. Though Jimmy agreed to go at once, Jumbo refused to move. Fifteen policemen had to push very hard to get him off the main street. The police had a difficult time, but they were most amused. 
'Jumbo must weigh a few tons,' said a policeman afterwards, 'so it was fortunate that we didn't have to carry him. 
Of course, we should arrest him, but as he has a good record, we shall let him off this time.' 
 
参考译文 
去年圣诞节, 马戏团老板吉米·盖茨决定送些礼物给儿童医院. 他打扮成圣诞老人, 在由 6 个漂亮姑娘组成的 “仪仗队” 的陪同下, 骑上一头名叫江伯的小象, 沿着城里的主要街道出发了. 他本该知道警察绝不会允许这类事情发生. 一个警察走过来告诉吉米, 他应该走一条小路, 因为江伯阻碍了交通. 虽然吉米同意马上就走, 但江伯却拒绝移动. 15 个警察不得不用很大的力气把它推离主要街道. 警察虽然吃了苦头, 但他们还是感到很有趣. “江伯一定有好几吨重, “一个警察事后这样说, “值得庆幸的是它没让我们抬它走. 
当然, 我们应该逮捕它, 但由于它一贯表现很好, 这次我们饶了它. “ 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	Last Christmas, the circus owner, Jimmy Gates, decided to take some presents to a children's hospital. take…to 	把……送到 
 
2、	Dressed up as Father Christmas and accompanied by a 'guard of honour' of six pretty girls, he set off down the main street of the city riding a baby elephant called Jumbo. dress up as… 装扮成为……（的样子） dress up 	打扮 
a guard of honour 	仪仗队 of six pretty girls 中的of 表示“由……组成的” 
A group of six Chinese boys took part in the competition. set off 	出发 
 
3、He should have known that the police would never allow this sort of thing. 
	should have done 	原本应该发生而没发生 
 
You should have come earlier. 
needn't have done 过去不必做但是做了 ought to have done 也表示原本应该做而没做所有的情态动词+have done 都跟过去有关 
 
4 、 A policeman approached Jimmy and told him he ought to have gone along a side street as Jumbo was holding up the traffic. as＝because 
	hold up the traffic 	阻碍交通 
If you park the car in the street, it’ll hold up the traffic. 
 
5、Though Jimmy agreed to go at once, Jumbo refused to move. agree to do sth. 同意做某事(to 为不定式 ) agree with sb. 同意某人（的建议等） 
I agree with you. agree to sth. 
I agree to your advice. 
I agree to go with you. 
 
6、	Fifteen policemen had to push very hard to get him off the main street. get off 	从……移去/除去 （off＝away from 离开什么地方） 
Please get the box off the boat. 
 
7、	'Jumbo must weigh a few tons,' said a policeman afterwards, 'so it was fortunate that we didn't have to carry him. Of course, we should arrest him, but as he has a good record, we shall let him off this time.' afterwards ＝later 后来 
It was fortunate that… 幸运的是…… 
let sb. off 	饶恕某人，放过……，对……从轻处理 record 	n.  纪录；（警察局的）记录，历史，成绩 set up a new world record 
	sb. have a good record 	表现一贯很好 
Her record as a secretary in the firm isn’t very good. resume n. 摘要, 概略, <美> 履历 
vt. 再继续, 重新开始, 重新占用, 再用, 恢复 
 
【Summary writing】 
1	What did he decide to take to a children's hospital? How did the circus owner, Jimmy Gates, dress up? Did he set off down the main street of the city, or did he go down a side street? Was he riding an elephant called Jumbo or not? (After having... and... riding) 
2	Was he told that he was holding up the traffic or not? Did Jimmy agree to go at once, or not? Did Jumbo agree to go, or did he refuse to move? How many policemen had to push him off the main street? (On being…but…so…) 
 
1	After having decided to take presents to hospital and dressed up as Father Christmas, he set off down the street riding a baby elephant called Jumbo. 
After 的后面可以直接加 doing,也可以加 having done 
After knocking at the door. / After having knocked at the door. 
decided 和 dressed 共用 after having 
动词 ing 强调时间上的同时 
2	On being told that he was holding up the traffic, he agreed to go at once, but Jumbo refused to move,so fifteen policemen had to push him off the main street. on 加在动词前面,相当与 as soon as be 在这儿要跟 done 相连 
 
【Letter Writing】书信常见语： 
I really hate to complain, but … 
Some time ago, I … 
 
【Key structures】 
Must, Have to, Should and Ought to 
must 通常只用于现在时和将来时，其他时态则用 have to 代替。have to 比 must 往往更强调客观的要求
或外在的原因。should 和 ought to 都可译为“应该”，表示义务、责任或某个正确的行为。ought to 比 should 语气略强些，多用于肯定句；疑问句与否定结构则多用 should。should/ought to +have +过去分词表示过去应该做（或完成）而没有做的事。 
He ought to have returned by now. He had to change his plans, but he should be returning soon. 
 
【Special difficulties】带 let 的短语 
	let 	vt. 允许，让 
	let sb. in 	允许进来 
The woman who let me in had a baby in her arms. 
	let sb. out 	放走，释放，放出去 
Every evening they let the dog out. 
	let off 	放过，饶过，宽恕，对……从轻处理 
	I think we shall let him off this time. 	我想这次我们饶了他。 
The thief never dreamt that the police would let him off. let down 	使……失望，（在紧要关头）抛弃 
They need your help. Don’t let them down. He failed in the exam again and his parents left let down. 
 
agree and accept 
	agree 	vi.  同意（计划、建议等），常与 to 和 with 连用 
They invited me to their wedding and I’ve agreed to go. 
	accept 	vt. 接受，收受 
 
She offered me some of her children’s clothes and I accepted them. I don’t accept your opinion/ agree with your opinion. 
 
dress and dress up 
	dress 	vt.&vt. 穿衣，打扮 
Tom has nearly learned how to dress/dress himself now. dress up 	穿上盛装，精心打扮，装扮（成……） 
He dressed up as Father Christmas. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 3 Jimmy ____b___Father Christmas. 
a. seemed as b. looked like c. looked as d. seemed as 后面要加句子, 只有在 the same as 结构时不加句子, 或者是 as...as 
Lucy is the same as her sister. 
like 的后面加代词或名词，表示“象……一样” 
	like me 	象我这样； like London 	象伦敦一样 
① seem 后面可以直接加形容词 
He seemed rich. 他看起来很富有 ② seem 后面会加 to 这个不定式结构 
He seemed to be rich. 
③	It seemed that… 表示某件事情看起来似乎如此 
It seemed that he is rich. 
④	seem +as if 从句 看起来似乎  
4 He should have known the police wouldn't allow it ____ b_ . 
a. and he did b. but he didn't c. but he couldn't d. but he had He 没做是一个事实,故用 He didn't 而不用 couldn't 
 
7 ____a___to carry him? 
a. Did they have b. Had they c. Must they d. Have they must 的后面是不会加 to 的 have to 当中的 have 是实义动词 