
 
	Lesson 73 	The record-holder 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（9） 
record-holder 	纪录保持者 
truant 	n. 逃学的孩子
unimaginative 	adj. 缺乏想像力的
shame 	n. 惭愧，羞耻 
hitchhike 	v.  搭便车旅行 
meantime 	n. 其间 
lorry 	n. 卡车 
border 	n. 边界 
evade 
 	v. 逃避，逃离 
★ record-holder 	纪录保持者 
n.+ v.+ er 构词法 tennis player 
 
★	truant 	n. 逃学的孩子，逃学者 
The three boys who are fishing over there are truants and ought to be sent back to school. play truant 	逃学（英） 
	the boy who played truant 	逃学的孩子 
	play hooky 	逃学（美） 
	be absent from class unpurpose 	逃学 （unpurpose 	adv. 故意的） 
He did it unpurpose. 
	evade school 	逃学 
 
★	unimaginative 	adj. 缺乏想象力的 imagine 	v. 想象，设想 imaginative 	adj. 有想象力的 
She is an imaginative painter. 
Painters should be imaginative. imagination 	n. 想象力 
-tive 一般是形容词的后缀；-tion 一般是名词的后缀 
 
★	shame 	n. 惭愧，羞耻 
What a shame!  	真 可 耻 ！ Shame on you!  	替你感到可耻！ shameful 	adj. 令人羞愧 ashamed 	adj. 感到羞愧 put sb. to shame 让某人感到羞愧对别人赞美的回答： 
Thank you. You are flattering me. （你过奖了。） 
 
You put me to shame. （你比我好的意思） put sb. to trouble 给某人带来麻烦  
★	hitchhike 	 v. 搭便车旅行 hitchhike = take a lift 搭 便 车 hitchhiker 	n. 搭便车的人 
 
★	meantime 	n. 其间 
in the meantime = meanwhile 	与此同时  
★	evade 	v. 逃避，逃离 
①	vt.（巧妙地）逃脱，躲开 
She evaded a blow from the man and then called out for help. 
②	vt. 回避，逃避（尤指不当地） 
	evade doing sth. 	逃避做…… 
He always tries to evade paying taxes. 
Many children dream of evading school. 
avoid 	v. 逃避，逃离，避免 avoid 指通过一种合理的，正当的手段来避免做某事；evade 指通过欺骗的手段来避免做某事。 tax avoidance 	避税 tax evasion 	逃税 
 
【Text】 
Children who play truant from school are unimaginative. A quiet day's fishing, or eight hours in a cinema seeing the same film over and over again, is usually as far as they get. They have all been put to shame by a boy who, while playing truant, travelled 1,600 miles. He hitchhiked to Dover and, towards evening, went into a boat to find somewhere to sleep. When he woke up next morning, he discovered that the boat had, in the meantime, travelled to Calais. No one noticed the boy as he crept off. From there, he hitchhiked to Paris in a lorry. The driver gave him a few biscuits and a cup of coffee and left him just outside the city. The next car the boy stopped did not take him into the centre of Paris as he hoped it would, but to Perpignan on the French-Spanish border. There he was picked up by a policeman and sent back to England by the local authorities. He has surely set up a record for the thousands of children who dream of evading school. 
 
参考译文逃学的孩子们都缺乏想像力。他们通常能够做到的，至多也就是安静地钓上一天鱼，或在电影院里坐  上 8 个小时，一遍遍地看同一部电影。而有那么一个小男孩，他在逃学期间旅行了 1,600 英里，从而使上述所有逃学的孩子们都相形见绌了。他搭便车到了多佛，天快黑时钻进了一条船，想找个地方睡觉。第二  天早上他醒来时，发现船在这段时间已经到了加。当男孩从船里爬出来时，谁也没有发现他。从那里他又  搭上卡车到了巴黎。司机给了他几块饼干和一杯咖啡，就把他丢在了城外。男孩截住的下一辆车，没有像  他希望的那样把他带到巴黎市中心，而是把他带到了法国和西班牙边界上的佩皮尼昂。他在那儿被一个警  察抓住了，之后被当局送回了英国。他无疑为成千上万梦想逃避上学的孩子们创造了一项纪录。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Children who play truant from school are unimaginative. 
play truant from school = play truant 	逃学 As a boy, Tom used to play truant (from school). 
 
 
2、A quiet day's fishing, or eight hours in a cinema seeing the same film over and over again, is usually as far as they get. 动词 ing 前面如果出现定语，若是名词，则采用名词所有格或名词短语本身。 eight hours' seeing the film 非谓语动词做主语，一律作单数看。 
Three hours in the room，It is tiring. 
Three hours(') listening to the teacher is tiring. 
Three hours in the room listening to the teacher is tiring. 
Events such as the March 5th shooting at a high school in San Diego bring the problem into focus. 比如三月五日圣地亚哥一所高中学校发生的枪击事件问题成为焦点。 
	over and over again = again and again 	一次又一次，一再地，反复许多次地 
As my grandmother can’t hear very well, I had to say it over and over again. as far as + 从句 最大程度……，到……程度，就……而言 
As far as I know, his operations successful.  
3、	They have all been put to shame by a boy who, while playing truant, travelled 1,600 miles. 
while 引导时间状语从句，一般放在前面或后面，放在中间就加上逗号。while doing 省略句，省略了 
主语和 be 动词，这个主语一定就是主句的主语。 put…to shame 	使……蒙羞，使……相形见绌 
What he has done put his parents to shame. 
He saved the child at the risk of his own life and put all those who looked on to shame. 他冒着生命危险救了那个孩子，使所有旁观者都相形见绌。 
 
4、	He hitchhiked to Dover and, towards evening, went into a boat to find somewhere to sleep. 
	hitchhike to… 	搭便车去…… 
Dover 	n. 多佛（英国著名的港口） towards evening 	快到晚上 somewhere to sleep 	 可以睡觉的地方 
anything to do/drink 可以做的事/可以喝的东西（这里 to do 做定语）  
5、	When he woke up next morning, he discovered that the boat had, in the meantime, travelled to Calais. wake up 	自己醒来 
	Calais 	n. 加来（法国城市） 
	in the meantime 	在此期间 
I feel tired and would like to take a nap. In the meantime, you may do some reading. 
 
6、No one noticed the boy as he crept off. creep off = creep away 
★ creep 
① vi.  爬行，匍匐，（像爬行似地）慢慢前进 
The old car crept along the country road. 
A snake crept into the garden while she was writing a letter. 
② vi. 悄悄地/蹑手蹑脚地走；渐渐产生/出现 
We crept upstairs so as not to wake Grandpa. 
He noticed that age had crept on him. 
 
7 、 The next car the boy stopped did not take him into the centre of Paris as he hoped it would, but to Perpignan on the French-Spanish border. take … into 	带到…… 
not…but… 	不是……而是…… as sb. hoped 正如某人所希望的 
I became a good teacher as my mother hopes. 
	than sb. expected 	比某人所期待的还…… 
Don't ask what the country do for you, but ask what you do for the country. 
the French-Spanish border 法国与西班牙的边界 （边界地带属于哪个地方由第一个国籍确定）  
8、There he was picked up by a policeman and sent back to England by the local authorities. pick up 	逮捕，拘捕 
After the accident, he was picked up by the police. 
 
【Letter Writing】 
每封信包含有三个主要部分：引言、目的和结束语。其中最重要的部分是目的。在这部分中必须说明  为
什么要写此信。 
 
【Summary writing 】 
5 Fares have increased. The railway company is still losing money. The employees have demanded higher wages. (In spite of the fact that . because) 
7 I made sure. The alarm clock worked. I set it. It would ring at six o'clock. (After making…that…so that) 
 
5. In spite of the fact that fares have increased, the railway company is still losing money because the employees have demanded higher wages. fare 	n. 费用 in spite of 	尽管 lose money 	亏损 
7. After making sure that the alarm clock worked, I set it so that it would alarm clock 	闹钟 set the clock 定闹钟 
be sure of +n. ；be sure to do sth. ；be sure that 
 
【Key structures】 	 简单句、并列句和复合句 
简单句是英语中最小的句子单位，一般有一个限定动词，它有一个主语和一个谓语，但可以用连词   and 
将两个或两个以上的动词合并为一个简单句。根据动词后所使用的不同成分，简单句可有  5   种基本句型： 
①	主语 +动词 
②	主语 +动词 +主语补足语： 
③	主语 +动词 +直接宾语： 
④	主语 +动词 +间接宾语+直接宾语 ⑤ 主语 +动词 +宾语 +宾语补足语将几个简单句连接起来构成并列句。在并列句中不存在单独的主句和从属于它的从句；各小句根据上  
下文的要求按逻辑次序排列，但各小句都同等重要并独立存在。我们常常把并列句中的各小句看成是并列  主句。可采用下列任何一种方式构成并列句： ① 用分号 
We fished all day; we didn’t catch a thing. 
②	用分号，后面跟一个连接副词(短语)，如 however、above all、in addition、as far as 等 
We fished all day; however, we didn’t catch a thing. 
③	用并列连词，如 and、but、so、yet 等，前面常加逗号： 
We fished all day, but (we) didn’t catch a thing. 
复合句的构成方法可以是把简单句连接在一起，但复合句的各个组成部分并非同等重要(此点与并列句  不同)，其中总有一个独立小句(或称“主句”)和一个或一个以上的从属小句(或称“从句”)；主句往往可  以独立存在。复合句的构成方法： 
①	用连词将从句与主句连接起来： 
If you’re not good at figures, it is pointless to apply for job in a bank. 如果你不擅于计算，向银行求职就毫无意义。 
②	用动词不定式或分词结构。它们是非限定性动词，是短语而不是从句，但它们构成复合句(而非简单
句)的一部分。 之所以如此是因为它们可以用从句的形式表现出来。 
To get into a university you have to pass a number of examinations. 从句可分为：名词性从句；关系/形容词从句；副词从句。
Holiday resorts which are very crowded are not very pleasant. 那些拥挤的度假场所令人感到不很愉快。 
Howerver hard I try, I can’t remember people’s names. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
10 They have been put to shame by a boy . They should feel ___a_ . 
(a) ashamed (b) shy (c) shyness (d) shameful feel（半联系动词）+ 形容词 
shyness 	n. 害羞 
shy 	adj. 害羞（指人的一种性格） 
shame 	v. 羞愧（跟人遇到某件事情当时的感觉有关系） 
shameful 	adj. 令人羞愧 ；ashamed 	adj. 感到羞愧 