
 
	Lesson 79 	By air 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（6） parent 	n. 父（母）亲 flight attendant 	空中乘务员 frightened 	adj. 害怕，担惊 curious 	adj. 急于了解，好奇的 bomb 	n. 炸弹 plant 	v.  安放 
 
	★ plant 	v. 安放 
①	vt. 种植；在……内种植 
They planted grass seed on the desolate hills. 
②	vt. 放置，安置；布置 
A bomb was planted on the plane. On that day many policemen were planted along the main street. 
 
【Text】 
I used to travel by air a great deal when I was a boy. My parents used to live in South America and I used to fly there from Europe in the holidays. A flight attendant would take charge of me and I never had an unpleasant experience. I am used to traveling by air and only on one occasion have I ever felt frightened. After taking off, we were flying low over the city and slowly gaining height, when the plane suddenly turned round and flew back to the airport. While we were waiting to land, a flight attendant told us to keep calm and to get off the plane quietly as soon as it had touched down. Everybody on board was worried and we were curious to find out what had happened. Later we learnt that there was a very important person on board. The police had been told that a bomb had been planted on the plane. After we had landed, the plane was searched thoroughly. Fortunately, nothing was found and five hours later we were able to take off again. 
 
参考译文我在幼年的时候，曾多次乘飞机旅行。我的父母曾经住在南美洲，所以假期里我常从欧洲乘飞机到他   
们那里。我总是由一位空中乘务员照管，从未遇到过不愉快的经历。我习惯了乘飞机旅行，只是有一次把   我吓坏了。起飞之后，我们在城市上空低低地飞行，然后慢慢爬高。这时飞机突然调转头来，飞回了机场。  在我们等待降落时，一位空中乘务员告诉我们要保持镇静，待飞机一着陆，就马上不声不响地离开飞机。   飞机上的人都很着急，大家都急于想知道究竟出了什么事。后来我们才得知，飞机上坐了一位非常重要的   人物。有人报告警察，说飞机上安放了一枚炸弹。我们降落之后，飞机被彻底搜查了一遍。幸运的是，什   么也没有找到。5 个小时后，我们又起飞了。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、A flight attendant would take charge of me and I never had an unpleasant experience. take charge (of)… 	照顾……，接管，开始管理 
She took charge of the child after his parents died. 
 
The new manager will take charge (of the company) from next week. 
 
2、I am used to travelling by air and only on one occasion have I ever felt frightened. 
倒装句，倒装句的结构为“副词+助动词（be，do，have，can，must 等）+主语 +句子的其余部分”。用倒装句的情况： 
①	句首为否定或近似否定的副词（never，rarely，little，on no occasion，hardly，no sooner…that 等）： 
Little does he realize how important this meeting is. 
Never has he got so many letters. 
On no occasion must you accept any money if he offers it. 
②	句首为 only 构成的词组（如 only after，only then 等）： 
Only then did I realize what a mistake I have made. 
Only after she had taken off her coat and hat could I recognize her. 如果 only 加上一个状语放在句首，那么就要用倒装语序。即把肯定句语序变成一般疑问句语序。 
It is only in recent years that it gained bad reputation. 强调句型 
Only in recent years did the tree gain bad reputation. 倒装句也表示强调 be used to doing sth. 习惯于做某事  
3 、 After taking off, we were flying low over the city and slowly gaining height, when the plane suddenly turned round and flew back to the airport. take off 	起飞 gain height 	（飞机）增加高度，爬高 （gain 	vt. 增加） 
The car gained speed when it was outside the town. 
He has gained so much weight that he decides to go on a diet. touch down 	（飞机）着陆，降落 
Don’t stand up before the plane has touched down.  
4、Everybody on board was worried and we were curious to find out what had happened. on board 	在……（如飞机）上，搭乘（船、飞机、火车、汽车等） 
Tom has never been on board a plane before. 
 
【Special Difficulties】 
与 take 有关的短语动词 take off 
① 脱下（衣服、鞋子等） 
Why don’t you take off your coat/hat/glasses? 
②（飞机）起飞，（鸟）飞起 
The plane will take off in half an hour. 
③（嘲弄地）模仿（口语） 
He takes people off so well he ought to go on the stage. 
He is always taking his teacher off. 
=He is always making fun of him by imitating him. take after 	（长相、性格等）像（父母等） 
Jane isn’t easy to get along with. She takes after her mother. 
 
take up 
①	占（时间、地点等） 
This work won’t take up too much of your time. Your books have taken up too much space. 
②	开始（从事、产生兴趣等） 
He took up tennis/painting two years ago. 
He has taken up French. =He has begun to learn French. 
	take to 	养成……的习惯，开始沉缅于（后跟名词或动名词） 
When did he take to drinking/smoking? 
	take in 	欺骗（口语，常用被动语态） 
On one occasion I was taken in. take down 	写下，记下 
I forgot to take down his telephone number. The reporter took down everything I said. 
	take over 	接收，接管 
We all hope that things will get better when the new manager takes over.  