
 
	Lesson 81 	Escape 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（14） 
prisoner 	n. 囚犯 
bush 	n. 灌木丛 
rapidly 	adv. 迅速地 
uniform 	n. 制服 
rifle 	n. 来福枪，步枪 
shoulder 	n. 肩 
march 	v. 行进 
boldly 	adv. 大胆地 
blaze 	v.  闪耀 
salute 	v.  行礼 
elderly 	adj. 上了年纪的 
grey 	adj. 灰白的 
sharp 	adj. 猛烈的 
blow 	n. 打击 
 
	★ march 	v. 行进 
①	v.（部队）行军，行进 
②	v.（威风凛凛/从容不迫地）走，迅速地走Jane marched out of the room without saying a word. 
 
【Text】 
When he had killed the guard, the prisoner of war quickly dragged him into the bushes. Working rapidly in the darkness, he soon changed into the dead man's clothes. Now, dressed in a blue uniform and with a rifle over his shoulder, the prisoner marched boldly up and down in front of the camp. He could hear shouting in the camp itself. Lights were blazing and men were running here and there: they had just discovered that a prisoner had escaped. At that moment, a large black car with four officers inside it, stopped at the camp gates. The officers got out and the prisoner stood to attention and saluted as they passed. When they had gone, the driver of the car came towards him. The man obviously wanted to talk. He was rather elderly with grey hair and clear blue eyes. The prisoner felt sorry for him, but there was nothing else he could do. As the man came near, the prisoner knocked him to the ground with a sharp blow. Then, jumping into the car, he drove off as quickly as he could. 
 
参考译文那个战俘杀死卫兵以后，迅速地把尸体拖进了灌木丛。他在黑暗中忙活了一阵儿，很快就换上了死者   的衣服。现在他身穿蓝军装，肩扛步枪，在军营门前大胆地来回走看。他听得军营里面的喧闹声。那里灯   米通明，人们在东奔西跑：他们刚刚发现有一个俘虏跑了。正在此时，一辆黑色大轿车在军营门口停了下   来。里面坐了 4 个军官。军官们下了车，战俘立正站好，并在他们从他面前经过时敬了礼。他们走后，汽车司机向他走来，这人显然是想聊天。他上了年纪，有着灰白的头发和明亮的蓝眼睛。战俘为他感到惋惜，但却没有别的选择。当这个人走近时，战俘一拳把他打倒在地，然后跳进车里，以最快的速度把车开走了。 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、	When he had killed the guard, the prisoner of war quickly dragged him into the bushes. the prisoner of war 战俘（缩写为 POW） 
 
2、	Working rapidly in the darkness, he soon changed into the dead man's clothes. change into 	换（衣） 
He changed into his new dress and went to the party. 
 
3、	Now, dressed in a blue uniform and with a rifle over his shoulder, the prisoner marched boldly up and down in front of the camp. 
	up and down 	来回，前后 
He was worried about his mother and walked up and down in the room. 
 
4 、 Lights were blazing and men were running here and there: they had just discovered that a prisoner had escaped. 
	here and there 	到处，四处 
They went here and there looking for the lost child.  
5、The officers got out and the prisoner stood to attention and saluted as they passed. 
	stand at/to attention 	立正 
The students stood at/to attention while the headmaster made a speech. 
 
【Letter Writing】结束语 
Please give my love/regards to… I hope you feel better soon. 
 
【Special Difficulties】Cloth， Clothes and Clothing cloth 
①	n. 布，布料（不可数名词） 
There’s enough cloth for a skirt. 
	Do you think the cloth will wear well? 	你认为这布料会耐穿吗？ 
②	n. 抹布，桌布（可数名词） 
Wipe up the mess with a cloth. 
	clothes 	n. 衣服，服装（后面动词用复数形式） 
My clothes are mostly bought from abroad. 
	clothing 	n. 服装的总称（不可数名词，包括衣服、鞋、帽等） 
He still needs some winter clothing. 
 
Salute and Greet 
 
	salute 	v.  行军礼，（向……）敬礼 
The guard saluted as the officers passed. The guard saluted the officers. 
	greet 	v. 打招呼，欢迎，迎接 
When we arrived, the whole family stood up to greet us. 
He greeted Dan with a nod. 
 
Clear and Clean clear 
①	adj. 清澈的，明亮的，晴朗的 
He was rather elderly with clear blue eyes. 
Seeing that it was a clear day, he drove to the countryside. 
②	adj. 清楚的，明确的，明了的 
I want to make it clear that I’m not paying the bill. 
③ adj. 畅通的，无障碍的，无危险的 
You can drive fast only when you are on a clear road. 
clean 
①	adj. 干净的 
These cups are not very clean. 
②	adj. 无污点的，无犯罪历史的 
	He has a clean record. 	他一贯表现很好（没有前科）。 