
 
	Lesson 56 	Faster than sound! 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（11） 
sound 	n. 声音 
excitement 	n. 激动，兴奋 
handsome 	adj. 漂亮的；美观的 
Rolls-Royce 	罗尔斯--罗伊斯 
Benz 	n. 奔驰 
wheel 	n. 轮子 
explosion 	n. 爆炸，轰响 
course 	n. 跑道；行程 
rival 	n. 对手 
speed 	v.  疾驶 
downhill 	adv. 下坡 
 
	★ sound 	n. 声音 
①	n. 声音 
sound 	n. 任何声音都可以 voice 	n. 人的声音 noise 	n. 和周围不和谐的声音, 躁音 
②	v. 听起来 
③	adj. 合理的（等于 reasonable adj.合理的, 有道理的, 通情达理的, 讲道理的） I have a piece of sound advice. 我有一个合理的建议。 
soundly 	adj. 香甜的 sleep soundly 
 
★	excitement n. 激动, 兴奋 to one's excitement… 令某人激动的是…… 
	The most exciting thing is that… 	最令人激动的是…… 
	The most surprising thing about it is that 	最令人惊讶的事情是…… 
It excited me that… 让我激动的是…… 
 
★	handsome adj. 漂亮的, 美观的 handsome adj. 形容男孩, 英俊, 一般与男孩子连如 handsome 与人连用有阳刚的美，与物相连表示美观大方，并表示制作精良；handsome 跟女性连用的时 
候就表示这个女孩子有阳刚气，类似女侠的概念 
Your husband is handsome. 
beautiful 形容人的时候表示内在和外在美的统一, 完美的概念 
You look beautiful. 
Flowers are beautiful. Picture is beautiful. 
	pretty 	adj. 美丽(用于女孩或小孩)，有柔美的意思 
 
pretty 跟男性连用就表示没有阳刚气，女性化
Your wife is pretty. 
pretty boy / pretty girl / pretty woman 
	nice 	adj. 美好的(人，天气, 食物, 物品的品质等) 
You are nice. 你长得不错 lovely 	adj. 可爱的 
This is a lovely story. 	这是一个可爱的故事 good-looking 	adj. 很好看的 smart 	adj. 小巧而美丽的(物)或时髦而美丽的(人) 
She is smart. 
	cute 	adj.漂亮, 常用来形容小孩 
The baby is cute. 
What a cute baby! 	多漂亮的宝宝啊! 
How cute you are! 	你多漂亮啊!(可爱啊!) 
 
★	explosion 	n. 爆炸, 轰响 explosive 	n. 爆炸物,炸药；adj. 爆炸(性)的, 爆发(性)的, 暴露 explode 	vt. 使爆炸；vi. 爆炸, 爆发, 破除, 推翻, 激发 bomb 	n. 炸弹；vt. 投弹于, 轰炸 
The bomb exploded. 
 
★	course 	n. 跑道，行程 ① n. 跑道，行程 on the course 按照轨道运行 off course 	偏离轨道 of course 当然 
② n. 课程 
This term, I took/take seven courses. 这学期我学了七门课 
 
★	rival 	n. 对手 competition 	n. 竞争, 竞赛 
The person who takes part in the competition. 
	competitor 	n. 竞争者, 对手 
opposite 	n. 相反的事物；adj. 相对的, 对面的, 对立的, 相反的, 对等的, 对应的 opponent  	n. 对手, 反对者(持反对意见的人, 如辩论赛上的和政治上的) enemy 	n. 敌人 
rival 	adj. 势均力敌的；n. 势均力敌的对手  
★	speed（sped，sped） v. 疾驶 
①	v. 疾驶，急行 
The police car sped past us. 
The two men sped out of the room. 
②	n. 速度 
 at the speed of 以……的速度 
The car goes at the speed of 40 miles an hour / at 40 miles an hour. 
在车后的 3 speed/4 speed 表示档位 speed up 速度的增加, 加速；slow down 减速 blow up 风力的增加 
 
★ downhill  adv.  下坡 downstairs 下楼；upstairs 上楼
go down stairs 
go downhill 下ft downtown 	n.&adj.&adv. 市中心的商业区（反意词 uptown 远离商业区） 
I'll go to the downtown. 
 
【Text】 
Once a year, a race is held for old cars. A lot of cars entered for this race last year and there was a great deal of excitement just before it began. One of the most handsome cars was a Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost. The most unusual car was a Benz which had only three wheels. Built in 1885, it was the oldest car taking part. After a great many loud explosions, the race began. Many of the cars broke down on the course and some drivers spent more time under their cars than in them! A few cars, however, completed the race. The winning car reached a speed of forty miles an hour -- much faster than any of its rivals. It sped downhill at the end of the race and its driver had a lot of trouble trying to stop it. The race gave everyone a great deal of pleasure. It was very different from modern car races but no less exciting. 
 
参考译文 
旧式汽车的比赛每年举行一次. 去年有很多汽车参加了这项比赛. 比赛开始之前, 人们异常激动. 最漂
亮的汽车之一是罗尔斯-罗伊斯生产的银鬼汽车, 而最不寻常的一辆则要属只有 3 只轮子的奔驰牌汽车了. 该车造于 1885 年, 是参赛车中最老的一辆. 在好一阵喧闹的爆炸声之后, 比赛开始了. 很多汽车在途中就抛了锚, 而有些驾驶员花在汽车底下的时间比坐在汽车里面的时间还长. 然而还是有几辆汽车跑完了全程. 获胜的那辆车达到了时速 40 英里——远远超过任何对手. 它在接近终点时, 冲下了ft坡, 驾驶员费了好大劲才把车停下来. 这次比赛使每个人都挺开心. 它虽然与现代汽车比赛大不相同, 但激动人心的程度并不亚于现代汽车大赛. 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Once a year, a race is held for old cars. 
=Old car race is held once a year. 
once +表示时间的名词 每……一次 
The postman calls once a day. 
be held for 比赛为……而举行 
 
2、A lot of cars entered for this race last year and there was a great deal of excitement just before it began. enter for 报名参加 
 a great deal of +不可数名词 大量的…… 
There was/is a great deal of excitement. 人们非常激动 a great number of +可数名词 
	a great many +可数名词 	许多…… 
a large amount of +不可数名词 just before =just 起强调作用 
 
3、	One of the most handsome cars was a Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost. one of 直接作主语的时候, 它是做单数看待的 
One of the answers is ture. 
One of those people is good. 
如果在定语从句中出现了 one of 作为先行词，它后边的关系代词指代的是后面的复数名词；如果在 one 
of 前面还有一修饰词 only，那么后边的关系代词将指代 one 这个词，才作单数看 
He is the only one of those rare people who believes in ancient myths. 
 
4、	Built in 1885, it was the oldest car taking part. 
The car was built in 1885. taking part 理解为 taking part (in the race)  
5、	After a great many loud explosions, the race began. after explosions 	许多爆炸声之后 
 
6、	Many of the cars broke down on the course and some drivers spent more time under their cars than in them! 
	many cars 许多车子；many of the cars 	车子当中的许多 
many students 许多学生；many of my students 	我教过的许多学生 some pictures 一些照片；some of the pictures 那些照片中的一些 break down 车子抛锚，（机械等）出故障，出毛病 
This morning I was late for work, because my car broke down twice. 
under the car 指在车下面修理；in the car 指正常驾驶。句中的 under 和 in 都是斜体，英文中的斜体字起强调作用 
spent more time under their cars than in them 他们花在车下的时间比在车里的时间还多  
7、	The winning car reached a speed of forty miles an hour -- much faster than any of its rivals. the wining car 	获胜车 a speed of +数量词 速度为…… 
You must have been driving at a speed of seventy miles an hour. 
much faster 快得多；a little faster 快一点 any of its rivals＝any rival 任何一个 
any 在比较级中一旦出现, 它往往要加可数名词的单数 
Beijing is bigger than any other city. （注意 “other” 不能丢） 
如果是不定代词, 可以说 someone else, anyone else；如果不是不定代词, 要在名词前加 other. 
any other competitor  
8、	It sped downhill at the end of the race and its driver had a lot of trouble trying to stop it. at the end of… 在……的末尾/最后部分 
He spoke a few words at the end of the meeting. 
have trouble (in) doing sth. 干……有麻烦，做……很困难（trouble 既可数又不可数） 
They had some trouble finding out the cause of the fire.  
9、	The race gave everyone a great deal of pleasure. give sb.+n. 给某人…… 
give sb. pleasure 
It will give sb. a great deal of pleasure. 
=There was a great deal of excitement. 
give sb. a fright 	吓了某人一跳 give sb. a surprise 	给某人一个惊喜 
 
10、	It was very different from modern car races but no less exciting. 
modern car race 	现代车赛 be different from 	和……不同 
no more 和 no less 都表示“和……一样”, 相当于 only, the same There are no more than 100 students. 这个房间仅有一百个学生。 no less exciting 一样的激动 no more than you 和你一样 
表示“和……不相同”用 not more= more；not less= less 
not less exciting 更令人激动 
 
【Letter writing】常用开头语： 
I am sorry it has taken me so long to write, but… I was glad to hear from you at last and to learn that… 
 
【Key structures】 	 
 	比较关系的句型 as…as 	和……一样 
	the same (…) as 	与……相同/同样 
You’ve made the same mistake as Tom. 有时 the same 可以单独使用： 
My mother is much younger than yours. 
She isn’t! They’re about the same age. Those two dress are the same. 
	not so…as / not as…as 	不如…… 
	different from 	与……不同（different 前面可加 very，much，a little 等修饰语） 
Is French food very different from Italian food? 
A Frenchman could tell you better than I can! 
We’re planning something different this year from what we did last year. litte 和 few 在口语中多用 not much，not many 代替： 
There isn’t much sugar/aren’t many sweets, but you can have a little/few. 
much 和 many 通常用于否定句和疑问句（正式文体除外）。在日常谈话中，通常避免在肯定句中使用
much 和 many，而用别的数量词。口语中用得最多的表示“许多”的数量词是 a lot of，它既可以与复数可数名词连用也可以与不可数名词连用，后面的动词用单数还是复数取决于名词。比 a lot of 正式一些的表达方式有：a great/good deal of+不可数名词，a great/good/large number of+复数名词，a great/good many of+复数名词。 
在 what 引导的感叹句中不用 much/many： 
What a lot of sweets Tom’s bought! 
I am less lucky. 我还不如他们幸运. more exciting 更激动 = not less exciting. 
 
 
【Special difficulties】 
Handsome, Beautiful, Pretty, Good-looking 
handsome adj. 漂亮的，英俊的，一般用来形容男子，也可以指东西的制作精良 beautiful adj. 美丽的，给人美感的，令人愉悦的，完美的，强调内在和外在的结合，用来形容女 
子、孩童、花草、服饰等，一般不用来形容男子的长相 
pretty adj. 漂亮的，可爱的，令人怜爱的，强调女孩和小孩的外表美丽 good-looking adj. 好看的，标致的，美貌的，男女均适用 
My furniture is good-looking. 
 
Reach and Arrive in/at 
	reach 	vt. 到达，达到（适用的范围比较广，不仅仅限于地点） 
When you reach my age, you’ll be able to understand it. 
Can you get that book down for me please? I can’t reach it. 
arrive 	vi. 到达，抵达在表示到达某个较大的地方时用arrive in，到达某个较小的地方/场所用 arrive at 
When I arrived at the station, the train had already gone. 
 
Take part and Take place 
	take part (in) 	参加，参与 
I didn’t take part in their conversation. It was the lodest car taking part. 
	take place＝happen 	发生，进行，举行 
What happened? = What took place? 
All these took place before you were born. The Olympic Games will take place in our country in four years’ time. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
3 A lot of cars entered for this race. There were_ c_ cars in it. 
a. much 	b. lot of 	c. lots of 	d. plenty much 修饰不可数；lot of 不存在这种结构；plenty of 	固定搭配 lots of = a lot of  
4 ___c___in 1885, so it was the oldest car in the race. 
a. It built b. Built c. It was built d. Having built 一个简单句只有一个主语+一个动词, 如果出现了两个动词, 那么用 “and,but,so” 等连接；变成带有从
句和主句的复合句；留一个作主干, 剩下的动词变为非谓语动词；有介词短语替代动词概念, 如 : the boy in black  
5 It was the oldest car taking part. There wasn't ___a___one. 
	a. an older 	b. the oldest 	c. an elder 	d. the eldest 
elder 意为 “年长的”，一般作定语用，不用作比较 not +比较级 =最高级  
6 It reached a speed of forty miles an hour. It ___c___ forty miles an hour. 
a. ran b. ran with c. went at d. drove with 用于 “速度” 的介词只有 “at” 
12 It went faster than any of its rivals. It went faster than its ___c___. 
	a. opponents  	b. enemies 	c. competitors 	d. partners 
opponent 	两个持相反观点的对手 partner 	伙伴, 搭档(合作关系的伙伴) 从下玩到大的伙伴用 : friend 或 company 