
 
	Lesson 39 	Am I all right? 
 
【New words and expressions】生词和短语（10） 
operation 	n. 手术 
successful 	adj. 成功的 
following 	adj. 下一个 
patient 	n. 病人 
alone 	adj. 独自的 
exchange 	n. （电话的）交换台 
inquire 	v. 询问，打听 
certain 	adj. 某个 
caller 	n. 打电话的人 
relative 	n. 亲戚 
 
★	following adj. 下一个 the next day, the following day 第二天 
the next week, the following week 	第二个星期  
★	alone adj.   独自的 alone   强调人孤单一个‘home alone’ -- 《独自在家》 
Leave me alone. 我烦着呢, 别理我 Leave him alone. 让他一个人呆会儿 
 
★	exchange 	n. (电话的)交换局 ① vt. 换，更换，调换（指同类事物之间） 
I want to exchange the red skirt for a blue one. 
② vt. 交换，互换 
I met Frank at a bus stop this afternoon and we exchanged a few words. Did you exchange gifts after the party? 
③ n. 电话交换台 
He telephoned the hospital exchange and asked for Doctor Millington. 
 
	★ inquire 	v. 询问, 打听 
① vt. &vi. 打听，询问 
A Mr. Wang inquired your telephone number. 一位王先生打听您的电话号码。 
inquire sth. of sb. 从某人那打听 insquire about sth. 打听某事 
He wanted to inquire about a certain patient. 
②	vi. 调查，查问 
He didn’t tell the truth when the police inquired into the accident. 
③	vi.  求见（某人），要找（某人） 
 
	She inquired for the manager. 	她想见经理。 
 
★ certain adj. 某个 certain 后面的名词的数量由它前面的数词来定
某一个a certain +n.（单数） 
a certain patient = some patient 某个病人
某两个two certain + n.(复数) two certain patient 
some+可数名词单数时表示某个(某一个) for some reason 由于某个理由 
 
【Text】 
While John Gilbert was in hospital, he asked his doctor to tell him whether his operation had been successful, but the doctor refused to do so. The following day, the patient asked for a bedside telephone. When he was alone, he telephoned the hospital exchange and asked for Doctor Millington. When the doctor answered the phone, Mr. Gilbert said he was inquiring about a certain patient, a Mr. John Gilbert. He asked if Mr. Gilbert's operation had been successful and the doctor told him that it had been. He then asked when Mr. Gilbert would be allowed to go home and the doctor told him that he would have to stay in hosptial for another two weeks. Then Dr. Millington asked the caller if he was a relative of the patient. 'No,' the patient answered, 'I am Mr. John Gilbert.' 
 
参考译文 
当约翰·吉尔伯特住院的时候, 他问医生他的手术是否成功, 但医生拒绝告诉他. 第二天, 这位病人要了一部床头电话. 当房里只剩他一个人时, 他挂通了医院的交换台, 要求与米灵顿医生讲话. 当这位医生接过电话时, 吉尔伯特先生说他想询问一个病人的情况, 是一位名叫约翰·吉尔伯特的先生. 他问吉尔伯特先生的手术是否成功, 医生告诉他手术很成功. 然后他又问吉尔伯特先生什么时候可以回家, 医生说他在医院还必须再住上两个星期. 之后, 米灵顿医生问打电话的人是否是病人的亲属. “不是, “病人回答说, “我就是约翰·吉尔伯特先生. “ 
 
【课文讲解】 
1、Am I all right? 
all right 当指人的健康状况时，可表示“安然无恙的，良好的” 
I was not very well last week, but I feel all right now. 
 
2 、 While John Gilbert was in hospital, he asked his doctor to tell him whether his operation had been successful, but the doctor refused to do so. 
So 在这里是代词，代替前面的动词不定式（to tell him whether…）。它一般出现 believe，do，expect， hope，say，tell，think，appear 等之后： 
Is it true that John has had an operation? I am afraid so. /I believe so. / I think so. / It seems so.  
3、	The following day, the patient asked for a bedside telephone. 
 
the following day = the next day，这里 following 表示“紧接着的，其次的”。 
ask for 请求，索要，要求（得到某个东西）。在下一句（…asked for Doctor Millington）中它表示“要求（某人）来（接电话）”。 
bedside telephone 床头电话  
4、	When the doctor answered the phone, Mr. Gilbert said he was inquiring about a certain patient, a Mr. John Gilbert. 
Certain  在这里没有“肯定的，确实的”等含义，而表示“某一，某位”，暗指说话者或说话对象可能对这人/这事不大清楚/熟悉，或所指的这个人身份不大清楚： 
Mary years ago a certain doctor arrived in London. 
a Mr. John Gilbert 一位名叫约翰.吉尔伯特的先生 
a+人名前面, 表示某一个拥有这个特征的人或我不认识的某某人，这种情况下 a 通常与表示“某一” 的 certain 连用： 
	He is a Leifeng. 	表示具有雷锋的特征
A certain Mrs. Hart is waiting to see you. 有位哈特夫人正等着见您。 
 
5、He then asked when Mr. Gilbert would be allowed to go home and the doctor told him that he would have to stay in hosptial for another two weeks. 
	for another two weeks 	又两个星期 
another 作为限定词表示“另一个，再一个”的时候，通常与可数的单数名词连用，不和复数形式连用； 
但是后面可以跟基数词/few+复数名词（它们被当成一个整体）： 
I need another three driving lessons before my test. 考试前我还需上 3 节驾驶课。 
I need another few hours before I can finish my homework. 我还需几个小时才能做完作业。 
 
 
【Key structures】 	 直接引语和间接引语 
直接引语的疑问句变为间接引语的疑问句时引号和问号不再使用，且直接疑问句中的倒装语序在转述 
疑问句里要还原为陈述句语序（主语+动词），有必要还要改变时态。转述一般疑问句时必须使用 if 或 whether，不可省略，助动词 do/does 和 did 在转述疑问句里消失了。 
	She asked if/whether you were tired. 	她问你是否感到疲劳. 
ask，want to know，wonder 等后面的 if 和 whether 通常可以互换，但是 whether 表示的怀疑程度比 if 稍大。 
I wonder if/whether he’s phoned the doctor. 在表示两者挑一时更常用 whether： 
She asked me whether I wanted tea or coffee. 
转述疑问句中带有 or not 时，通常用 whether 引导，不用 if 引导： 
He wants to know whether or not we want dinner. 
	Did the children say they’d eaten? 	他们没告诉我他们吃了没有。 
在转述特殊疑问句时，通常用原来的疑问词。在针对主语提问的间接疑问句中，时态和情态助动词照常有变化，但语序保持不变。 
Tom asked if / whether Jack would arrive the next day. 汤姆问杰克第二天是否能到. 
Jane asked why I hadn't written to her. 简问为什么我不给她写信. 
如果直接引语是问句，变为间接引语时，主句不说 He said，而用 He asked；told 可以后跟问句，还可
以跟陈述句： 
直接引语是表示命令、请求、建议的祈使句通常可用适当的动词后跟不定式来转述，常用的这类动词  
有 advise，ask，tell，order，command，warm，invite 等，这些动词后往往有间接宾语，在转述这类祈使句的否定形式时，必须将 not 放在带 to 的不定式之前： 
She reminded/told me to turn off all the lights. 
The teacher was telling/ordering/commanding her students to close their books. 
tell sb. to do sth. 
The teacher told me (not) to open the door. 
ask sb. to do sth. 
动词 suggest 和 insist 用于转述建议、要求时，其结构为 suggest/insist +that 从句（用 should）： 
He suggests that they should sell the flat. I hope they won’t sell the flat. He still insisted that we should help him. 
 
【Multiple choice questions】 
3 John Gilbert was in hospital. He was taken _ c_ hospital last week. 
a. at 	b.in 	 	c.to 	d.on take sb. to hospital 	送某人去医院 
 
5 ___d___? A bedside telephone. 
	a. For what did he ask 	b. What did he ask 
c. For what did he ask for 	d. What did he ask for for what 	因为……（在疑问句中＝why） 
	For what did he ask? 	他为什么要? 
ask for 	要求得到  
7 He will have to stay in hospital. That's what he ___b___. 
a. has done b. must do c. must be doing d. must have done a、has done 已经做的 ； b、must do 必须做的 ；c、must be doing 
	must+ v.(原形)＝have to 	不得不；很可能（对现在或者将来的推测） 
must +原形, +be doing, +have done 属于推测句型的三种结构 must be doing 对说话的当时的正在进行的行为的推测 
He must be sleeping. 
He must be making the notes. 
	must have done 	对过去的事情的推测 
He must have made the notes. 
	must have been doing 	对过去的正在进行的动作的推测 
He must have been sleeping.  
11 He was alone. He was ___a___. 
 
a. on his own 	b. lonely 	c. with himself 	d.unique on one's own ＝ alone 
of one's own 某人自己的  
12 He inquired about a patient. He wanted ___b___. 
a. informations  	b.information 	c. knowledges 	d. knowledge knowledge 	n.知识, 学问, 认识, 知道, <古>学科 information 	n. 信息（不可数名词） a piece of information 	一条信息 message 可数名词, 如手机短信  